      Vic Coupland Ltd & Vic Coupland Mechanical Ltd
      3 Therm Road, Hull, HU8 7BF
      Tel: 01482 323346
      Email: enquiries@viccoupland.com
      Web: www.viccoupland.com

      Directors: N.K Marris – P.M Chapman – M.F Dodson
      Registration No. 326914 England (Vic Coupland Ltd)
      Registration No. 5583448 England (Vic Coupland Mechanical Ltd)




                   Yorkshire Energy Park - Energy Statement

INTRODUCTION

This Energy Statement has been prepared by Vic Coupland Ltd. to support a Reserved Matters
Application (RMA) at the Yorkshire Energy Park (YEP). The YEP site is a mixed use development
which benefits from an Outline Planning Permission (OPP) (Ref. 17/01673/STOUTE), approved 22
December 2020 by East Riding of Yorkshire Council (ERYC). The Site is located at Land North
West Of Kingstown Hotel, Hull Road, Hedon, East Riding Of Yorkshire.

The applicant (Hull Eco Park Ltd (HEPL)) has submitted a RMA for the following proposed
development:

Reserved matters application for layout, scale, appearance and landscaping for the construction of
an energy centre, a data centre, and associated roads and infrastructure, to outline planning
permission 17/01673/STOUTE

Condition 77 on the OPP states the following:

The details submitted pursuant to condition 2 for each part of the development within the Business
Park Land Use Zone or the Data Centre Land Use Zone (shaded yellow and purple respectively on
plan reference YEP_BDP(PL)003 Rev E), shall include an energy statement demonstrating that the
proposed occupier would have specific energy use requirements which would be met by the on-site
energy generation facilities. Each part of the development shall be occupied in accordance with the
details set out in the approved energy statement. A new or updated energy statement shall be
submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority before any part of the
development within the Business Park Land Use Zone or the Data Centre Land Use Zone is
occupied by a subsequent occupier. Subsequent occupation shall thereafter be in accordance with
the details set out in the approved new or updated energy statement.

The Data Centre element of this RMA is located within the Data Centre Land Use Zone (as per the
approved Land Use Parameter Plan (Ref. YEP_BDP(PL)003 Rev E). Therefore, in line with the
requirements of Condition 77, an Energy Statement is required to be submitted alongside this RMA.
The Energy Statement is required to demonstrate that the proposed occupier of the Data Centre
would have specific energy use requirement which would be met by the on-site energy generation
facilities. On-site energy generation will be created by the Energy Centre which also forms part of
this RMA. Condition 77 also requires each part of the development (i.e. the Data Centre that forms
part of this RMA) to be occupied in accordance with the details set out within the approved Energy
Statement.

                                                                                         Page 1
       Vic Coupland Ltd & Vic Coupland Mechanical Ltd
       3 Therm Road, Hull, HU8 7BF
       Tel: 01482 323346
       Email: enquiries@viccoupland.com
       Web: www.viccoupland.com

       Directors: N.K Marris – P.M Chapman – M.F Dodson
       Registration No. 326914 England (Vic Coupland Ltd)
       Registration No. 5583448 England (Vic Coupland Mechanical Ltd)




This Energy Statement, prepared by Vic Coupland Ltd., provides the detail required in order to
satisfy the requirements of Condition 77 on the OPP.

ENERGY STATEMENT

The Data Centre operator have specifically selected the YEP site for their new data centre due to
the resilient on-site zero carbon electrical and cooling energy generation planned for 2026, when
the hydrogen source becomes available, where energy costs are provided at market rates
equivalent to the grid supply. The Combined Heat and Power (CHP) turbines will initially be running
off natural gas until the planned hydrogen supply becomes available.

The Data Centre is designed to be initially built for 240 data racks requiring approximately 3-4MW
of electrical demand with future expansion to 600 racks expanding to a future electrical demand of
6MW. The cooling provided as a by-product of the energy generation, piped in cold water pipes
from the energy centre to the data centre, eliminating the need for their own chiller plant.

As the first tenants on the site, the energy centre generation capacity has been designed to align
with the requirements of the data centre for both their energy and resilience

Therefore, energy, for the Data Centre, will be drawn from the onsite energy centre (both of which
form part of this RMA) which will provide the electrical and cooling requirements of the Data Centre
space and ancillary office space with the Data Centre. The Energy Centre will be working towards a
zero-carbon footprint eventually adopting hydrogen as its source of energy supply in the future.

Electrical energy provided by a CHP plant will be utilised to provide power to energy efficient
technologies were applicable/available.

Cooling energy will be provided through the use of a community system via the proposed energy
centre as a by-product of the electrical energy production via the CHP plant.

Heating energy will be provided using a combination of Air Source Heat Pumps and Variable
Refrigerant Flow (VRF) systems.

Passive energy efficiency design measures invariably prove to be the most economical and
socially acceptable inclusions on any scheme. Ensuring air-tight, well insulated buildings with
good control measures are among the most important considerations.
The design team will carry out relevant calculations and modelling to ensure these elements are
optimised wherever possible within the scope of the project.


                                                                                            Page 2
      Vic Coupland Ltd & Vic Coupland Mechanical Ltd
      3 Therm Road, Hull, HU8 7BF
      Tel: 01482 323346
      Email: enquiries@viccoupland.com
      Web: www.viccoupland.com

      Directors: N.K Marris – P.M Chapman – M.F Dodson
      Registration No. 326914 England (Vic Coupland Ltd)
      Registration No. 5583448 England (Vic Coupland Mechanical Ltd)




The following provides a summary of the energy efficiency measures that are to be considered in
order to improve the feasible energy rating for the new development:
        1.      The use of glazing to maximise daylight in all areas.
        2.      Passive solar control to help minimise the requirement for mechanical cooling by
                use of; solar controlled glazing, deep window reveals and recessed facades to
                South facing elevations.
        3.      Partial or full solar control glazing to the south facing glazing as a minimum.
        4.      Enhanced building thermal performance that exceeds building regulation minimum
                standards.
        5.      Maximise efficiency of plant and systems.
        6.      Optimise control and flexibility of the installations.
        7.      Air-tight construction. Proposed air permeability rate to surpass current regulatory
                standards.
        8.      Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) and lighting systems to operate
                ‘on-demand’ wherever practical.




                                                                                              Page 3
