 
Page 13 of 29 
Fuel Storage – Bulk Fuel Storage System 
There are two 40,000-litre top-up tanks serving the data centre halls. Fuel 
tankers deliver fuel to these tanks, which then distribute fuel to individual belly 
tanks. 
A separate fuel storage tank (capacity 349 litres) serves the substation generator. 
The operator confirms that all tanks comply with the Control of Pollution (Oil 
Storage) (England) Regulations 2001 (SI 2001/2954). 
 
Fuel Delivery – Unloading Area 
Fuel is delivered to site via fuel tankers. Tanker unloading will take place in 
dedicated refuelling laybys, with one layby serving each data centre hall for the 
emergency generators. Upon arrival, the tanker will be directed to the layby and 
connected to the top-up tank fill point. Each top-up tank, located adjacent to its 
layby, has a 40,000 litters (L) capacity and is integrally bunded to 110% of the 
primary tank volume. Tanks will be constructed to BS 799 Pt 5 Type J standards 
from 3 mm thick steel (S275JR BS EN 10025:2004) and comply with oil storage 
regulations. 
During refuelling, only one tanker compartment (10,000 L) will be unloaded at a 
time. For the substation generator, refuelling occurs through an external fill 
cabinet mounted on the substation wall. Protective measures include 
impermeable surfacing, kerbing on three sides, and sloped surfaces directing 
runoff to a foul linear drain at the low point. Each drain connects to an oil 
interceptor with a 10,000 L capacity, sufficient to contain the contents of one 
tanker compartment. Additional safeguards include drip trays beneath 
connections and temporary spillage barriers deployed around the tanker during 
refuelling in line with the Spill Response Plan to contain any accidental spills. 
Fuel from the top-up tanks will be distributed via double-skinned pipelines with 
leak detection to belly tanks beneath each generator. Underground sections are 
limited to connections between the top-up tanks and generator yards; all other 
pipelines are aboveground and permanently fixed. The fuel system will be 
inspected under the Planned Preventative Maintenance (PPM) programme. 
The permanent tanker connection point, located within a refuelling cabinet on the 
outside of the top-up tank, will include a dust cap, isolation valve, and non-return 
valve to prevent contamination, enable safe disconnection, and avoid backflow. A 
drip tray beneath the connection point will capture any spillage during connection 
and disconnection, and its condition will be checked before refuelling. 
Overfill prevention measures include alarms, shut-off valves, and probes 
detecting fuel levels and bund leaks. Audible alarms will alert personnel at the fill 
point when preset levels are reached, and an overfill prevention valve provides a 