 
Page 12 of 29 
the emergency use of 500 hours is for the Installation as a whole i.e. as soon as 
one generator starts operating the hours count towards the 500 hours.  
The operational hours on the site will be monitored and reported as follows:  
• Emergency operation limited to 500 hours for the Installation via permit 
condition 2.3.3.  
• Maintenance and testing regime limited to <50 hours per stack, linked to 
operating techniques table S1.2. 
 
 
Containment and Prevention of Pollution to Ground, Surface water and 
Groundwater 
Fuel Storage, Distribution and Containment 
The operator has demonstrated that there are robust systems in place for the 
containment of fuel. There is an internal gauge in the tank cabinet. It sits on top 
of the tank within the cabinet, so is protected from the external environment, 
reducing the risk of any damage occurring. The sight gauge has no valve as it 
sits above the fuel. The fuel storage and management system for the Installation 
comprises belly tanks, bulk storage tanks, delivery infrastructure, spill control 
measures, and compliance features. All taps and valves will be locked shut when 
not in use.  
 
Fuel Storage – Belly Tanks 
Each generator is equipped with an integrally bunded belly tank with a capacity of 
16,000 litres and bunding to 110% capacity. Tanks are fitted with multiple alarms 
(low, low-low, high, high-high, and leak detection) to detect pressure loss, 
significant leakage, and abnormal fluid levels during filling and operation.  
All alarms are connected to the Electrical Power Monitoring System (EPMS) for 
remote monitoring. Daily visual checks are conducted to identify minor leaks not 
detected by alarms.  
Each generator includes a fuel polishing unit to maintain fuel integrity by 
continuous circulation and filtration. These units also have leak detection linked 
to EPMS.  
Belly tanks are welded internally and externally and manufactured to the Water 
Environment Standard for Oil Storage. Tanks are permanently plumbed into the 
bulk fuel storage system, reducing the risk of spills by not having temporary 
pipeline connections. 
 
 