 
Page 28 of 29 
indicators of concentrations that may require public health action, especially 
where UK equivalents are unavailable. 
• As described in more detail in the Air Quality Section above, we audited 
the operator’s air quality assessment, including undertaking detailed check 
modelling and completing sensitivity analysis. We audited the inputs including 
receptor locations and are satisfied. We agree that the consultant has assessed 
the human receptors likely to have worst-case exposure. 
We audited an Air Quality Assessment (AQA)1 prepared by Ove Arup & Partners 
Limited (the consultant), commissioned by Amazon Data Services UK Limited 
(the operator). The consultant submitted the AQA in support of their permit 
application to operate a set of 42 back-up diesel generators at Linmere Island 
Data Centre, Sundon Road (the site). The consultant has assessed potential 
impacts at human and ecological receptors for nitrogen oxides (NOX), nitrogen 
dioxide (NO2), nitrogen monoxide (NO), and particulate matter (PM10 and 
PM2.5), under three testing scenario and one emergency scenario of this report). 
As the SBGs utilise low sulphur diesel, SO2 emissions have been screened out. 
No assessment of short term (ST) PM10 has been completed as “operational 
periods would not contribution to more than 35 individual 24-hour periods”. We 
have determined that the risk of exceedance of the SO2 and PM10 
Environmental Standards (ES) is de minimis, therefore, have only considered 
emissions of NOX in our audit.  
• For all testing and emergency scenarios, we predict no exceedances of 
long-term or short-term UK Environmental Standards for routine testing. 
Under the emergency scenario, short-term NO₂ and AEGL-1 exceedances 
may occur at one receptor (HR17), but the likelihood is very low due to the 
rarity of prolonged outages. 
We note the consultant states “Grid outages are highly rare events occurring less 
than 1 in 10 years and historically last less than 2 hours”. We consider that 
exceedances are unlikely to occur as a result of emergency operations provided 
the grid reliability is high. 
With regards to concern on air quality deterioration,  the applicant’s modelling 
assessment included consideration of existing pollution levels. We checked the 
levels used in the modelling were appropriate as part of our audit. We are satisfied 
that there will not be a significant adverse impact on air quality. In addition to this, 
we have specified that the Operator shall have a written Air Quality Management 
Plan (AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency running of the plant 
and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours, as far as possible. 
This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The Operator is 
expected to work with the Local Authority to develop this plan to ensure local 
factors are fully considered.   
 