 
Page 14 of 29 
failsafe. These components will be regularly maintained under the Environmental 
Management System (EMS). 
Fuel deliveries will be conducted by trained tanker drivers and supervised by 
qualified site engineering personnel, following the Standard Operating Procedure 
(SOP) for Fuel Delivery Refill of Receiver and Belly Tanks. The SOP, 
incorporated into the EMS, covers pre-work checks, delivery procedures, system 
verification, emergency scenarios, and inspection of spill containment measures 
such as drip trays. The Operator has also prepared a Spill Response Plan 
detailing notification, containment, cleanup, disposal, drainage checks, and post-
response review. Spill kits designed for diesel will be deployed to prevent 
hazardous liquids entering drainage systems, and procedures will be updated 
following any spill to minimise recurrence. 
 
Containment Protection - Pipework 
The pipework on site will have protection measures in place to prevent loss of 
containment. Diesel will be pumped from the central top-up tanks to the belly 
tanks located beneath the generators. Underground fuel pipes will be double-
skinned and fitted with leak detection, and their length will be minimised wherever 
possible. Above-ground pipes will be single-skinned and positioned close to 
building perimeters. All pipework will be regularly maintained and visually 
inspected prior to, during, and after refuelling operations. 
Generators, fuel storage areas, and above-ground pipelines will be located on or 
over hardstanding drip trays to provide secondary containment. The underground 
fuel distribution system has been designed and installed in accordance with best 
practice and relevant standards. Warning tape has been installed above the 
pipework in compliance with National Joint Utilities Group (NJUG) standards, and 
pipes are laid in suitable backfill material. Additional vibration protection 
measures are not required due to the low frequency of heavy vehicle movements 
on site. 
Underground pipelines will consist of double-skinned stainless-steel pipes 
(BRUGG flexwell or equivalent) with integrated leak detection. Non-corrosive 
plastic (PLX/PE) double-walled pipes with vacuum leak detection, certified to EN 
14125, will also be used. Leak detection will be linked to the main monitoring 
system, and daily visual inspections will be carried out on above-ground 
pipework. No mechanical joints will be present in the underground system, 
reducing potential leak points. 
Single-skinned pipelines will only be used between belly tanks and generators, 
contained within generator enclosures. These seamless carbon steel pipes will 
only hold fuel during generator operation, which is limited to approximately 50 
hours per year for testing or emergencies. During operation, generators will be 