 
Page 9 of 29 
Impact on Ecological Receptors 
 
The consultant selected critical levels and critical loads using data from the Air 
Pollution Information System (APIS) website. The consultant stated that, 
according to APIS, the Sundon Chalk Quarry SSSI does not have assigned 
critical loads. The consultant has applied the critical loads for ‘calcareous 
grassland’ and ‘broadleaved, mixed and yew woodland’ as proxy values for the 
SSSI and assessed their PCs against these in the AQA (tables 33, 34, 43, 44, 53 
and 54).  
 
The consultant did not assess acid or nitrogen deposition at any of the LWS 
included in the assessment. Our checks indicate that acid and nitrogen 
deposition PCs are likely to be insignificant at all six LWS. The consultant has 
applied the higher daily mean NOX critical level of 200 µg/m3 at all ecological 
sites. Our checks confirm that the higher critical level can be applied in this 
instance. 
 
The consultant reports PCs and PECs for ecological receptors ER1–ER5 in 
Appendix C of the AQA, and results for ER6–ER12 in the technical note (tables 
10, 11 and 14–23). The consultant’s results indicate the following: 
 
• During testing, the annual NOX, acid deposition and nitrogen deposition 
PCs are predicted to be insignificant at all receptors. Daily NOX PCs are 
predicted to be insignificant at all receptors apart from at the Sundon 
Chalk Quarry SSSI, where the PECs are predicted to be below the lower 
critical level of 75 µg/m3.  
 
• For the 72-hour emergency scenario, the consultant’s annual NOX PCs 
are ‘not insignificant’, but the PECs are not predicted to exceed the critical 
level. The consultant’s daily mean NOX PCs exceed the ES at all 
modelled ecological receptors. The consultant claims that the chances of 
an exceedance are unlikely, because of the reliability of the electrical 
distribution network and the inbuilt design resilience. We agree 
exceedances are unlikely, because the emergency scenario is based on a 
national emergency event. 
 
• The consultant did not assess nitrogen or acid deposition for the 
emergency scenario. We have assessed these in our audit which is 
discussed below. 
 
 
Environment Agency review of operator assessment of potential impact on 
air quality 