 
Page 11 of 29 
Emergency exceedances, while possible, are extremely rare events due to 
system reliability. 
 
Protection Against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation 
The largest risk of gaseous emissions from the site occurring which could impact 
human health or ecological receptors would be if the gas oil or equivalent fuel 
generators had to operate for any significant period of time following a National 
Grid failure. 
To address this scenario and minimise emissions, the operator: 
Uses power distribution system, on-site, starting from the High Voltage 9HV 
(132kV) UKPN connection at Sundon substation down to the Operators 132/20kV 
Transformer, it is designed to be safe reliable, robust and efficiency and have a 
high in-built redundancy.  
Building A and Building B are both equipped with a Catcher system which is an 
electrical infrastructure element that provides redundant power to the critical 
loads. This system is shared across all electrical lineups.  
Each Building will be equipped with two catcher distinct systems consisting of a 
Catcher Unit Substation Switchboard (MEDS-1.1C and MEDS-2.1C) with a 
dedicated utility supply and an emergency generator for the provision of power. 
The Catcher installation distributes the "reserve" power from the catcher MEDS 
to downstream equipment connected throughout the data centre building, when 
needed. 
In each critical electrical lineup, the Utility Switchboard is supplied from a third 
"catcher" source in addition to the utility and generator sources. This allows 
critical loads to be automatically transferred to the catcher system in case of 
failure on the normal power supply or equipment. The catcher system helps 
reduce generator runtime by providing an alternative backup power source to the 
critical loads. Instead of relying solely on the generators for backup power during 
a utility failure, the catcher system can take over and supply power to the critical 
loads. This allows the generators to remain in standby mode, reducing their 
runtime.  
In case of loss of mains supply, a certain amount of load is transferred to one of 
the catchers and the other catcher can be utilised to provide a fully available 
second source for all the unaffected lineups and the critical load. Catcher loading 
will be monitored and actively balanced through the use of a Dynamic Load 
Balancing (DLB MK2) control system.  
Operational hours 
In order to minimise generator operation, we set operational hour limits for data 
centres at 500 hours as they are permitted for emergency use only. The limit on 