 
Page 15 of 29 
monitored, and the enclosure will provide secondary containment in case of 
leaks. If fuel is detected within an enclosure, the Spill Response Plan will be 
implemented. 
All other fuel pipelines will be double skinned with vacuum leak detection and 
alarm systems to provide immediate notification of leaks. 
 
Raw Material Storage, and Distribution  
The raw materials to be used at the site are: Gas oil and HVO: each generator 
will require (when providing ‘standby’ power):  
• Main generators CAT 3516E (8 MWth): up to 757.1 L per hour (at 100% 
load)  
• House generators CAT C32 (2.1 MWth): up to 249 L per hour (at 100% 
load)  
Lubricating oil and anti-freeze: to be used in the engines and other mechanical 
equipment. Occasional top up or replacement will be required during scheduled 
or forced maintenance periods only.  
The lubricating oil and anti-freeze for the generators will be stored within the 
engines and manually topped up during servicing by an appointed service 
contractor. 
Transformer oil: Occasional top up or replacement will be required. No lubricating 
oil/anti-freeze or transformer oil will be stored on site by the operator; all oils will 
be brought to site and topped up/replaced during planned or forced maintenance 
periods only.  
The BAT objective with regard to raw materials is achieved by the appropriate 
design, operation and maintenance of the generators to ensure the lowest 
possible consumption rate of fuel; by the selection of least hazardous materials; 
and by the provision of appropriate storage methods.  
The generator engines are designed for the combustion of gas oil, this being the 
fuel recommended/specified by the engine manufacturers. The gas oil will have a 
low sulphur content. Gas oil has been selected due to the ability to store 
sufficient volumes on site to ensure security of supply. 
 
Inspection and Maintenance 
A formal Planned Preventative Maintenance (PPM) regime will be implemented, 
including a six-monthly inspection and maintenance programme undertaken by a 
contractor. This will involve: 
• Bringing interceptors to ground level and removing contaminated water. 