 
Page 6 of 29 
any residual firewater contamination. Remediation of the attenuation pond may 
also be undertaken if deemed necessary. This could include the removal and 
replacement of surface topsoil materials in the pond which would then be taken 
offsite for treatment/disposal at an appropriate waste facility. 
 
Firewater generated within refuelling laybys will drain to the foul drainage system 
and be captured in the 10,000 L interceptors. Each interceptor is fitted with an 
outfall valve that can be closed under the Emergency Response Plan to prevent 
discharge. If capacity is exceeded, firewater will back up into the layby and, if 
necessary, enter the surface water system for containment in the attenuation 
pond.  
 
In the event of a fire, the valve located at the surface water drainage discharge 
point will be manually closed. The Installation’s Emergency Response Plan 
requires the closing of this valve in the event of a fire. This will prevent surface 
water from escaping the boundary of the Installation via surface water drainage 
discharge point (SW1).  
 
 
 
Air Quality 
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) and the relevant parts of 
the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (Specified generators: dispersion modelling 
assessment - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) the operator submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 
Operator’s Assessment of Potential Impact on Air Quality 
The operator submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment prepared by Ove 
Arup & Partners (the consultant), which considered the potential impacts of the 
principal pollutants of concern with respect to emissions to air from low sulphur 
gas oil/ HVO generators. The consultant has assessed the potential long-term 
and short-term impacts of nitrogen oxides (NOX), particulate matter (PM), and 
sulphur dioxide (SO2) at sensitive human and ecological receptors within the 
defined screening distances.  
Human Receptors 