 
Page 22 of 29 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit 
values in line with technical guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will 
aid the delivery of national air quality targets. We do not consider that we need to 
include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
pre-operational conditions. The following pre-operational conditions have been 
included in the permit: 
1 - Commissioning 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a commissioning 
plan to the Environment Agency for approval. The plan shall provide timescales 
for the commissioning of the gas oil generators and shall demonstrate that the 
commissioning of the gas oil generators is covered within the site’s permitted 
regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations and impacts. 
We have included this pre-operational condition as the risk assessment 
submitted with the application does not cover the commissioning phase 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. 
We consider that IC2 and IC3 are appropriate because the potential level of 
exceedance in a prolonged emergency scenario is very high at one receptor (with 
predicted environmental concentration at HR17 almost 5 times higher and a 
100th percentile 1-hour, 10-minute and 30-minute NO2 PCs predicted to exceed 
the Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGL-1) values at this receptor). 
However, we agree that the likelihood of the emergency scenario occurring is 
very unlikely (<5% probability for an operating window of 55 hours for receptor 
HR17) based on electrical grid reliability for the area and inbuilt design resilience. 
Therefore, these two improvement conditions are to be actioned only on the 
request of the Environment Agency if we deem it necessary.   
 