 
Page 5 of 29 
 
Interceptors 
One oil interceptor is located downstream of the attenuation pond’s flow control 
device. It has an oil compartment capacity of 225 L and is fitted with an alarm 
that activates when the compartment reaches capacity. 
 
In total, the site has three interceptors: 
• Two interceptors (10,000 L each) serving the refuelling laybys within the foul 
drainage network. 
• One interceptor located before the surface water discharge point (SW1), 
downstream of the attenuation pond’s flow control device. 
 
Procedures will be included in the EMS which will require the regular inspection 
of the oil interceptors. Prior to any refuelling event, the oil interceptors will be 
checked and emptied and any oil removed offsite for treatment/disposal at an 
appropriate waste management facility. 
 
All three interceptors are fitted with alarms which will notify staff via the 
Installation’s control system if the presence of fuel is detected at a certain level 
prior to reaching capacity. Following the identification of oil, the Spill Response 
Plan will be followed. This will ultimately result in oil being pumped from the oil 
interceptor and be removed from site by a licenced contractor.  
 
Firewater  
 
In the event that a fire does breakout at the Installation, it has been designed so 
that any firewater that has been generated will be contained in the Installation 
boundary. The drainage systems include measures to contain all firewater within 
the system so that it can be subject to controlled removal offsite and thus prevent 
the escape of firewater to the environment. 
 
The firewater would be managed within the surface water drainage system (with 
the exception of any firewater generated within the refuelling laybys). 
 
The capacity of surface water drainage system (including the attenuation pond) 
has been designed for a 1 in 100 year storm event. This capacity has been 
incorporated into the design to ensure firewater is contained within the surface 
water drainage system (primarily within the attenuation pond) and prevent 
overtopping resulting in accidental release to ground. 
 
Following emptying and removal of firewater from the attenuation pond offsite, as 
a precautionary measure surface water in the pond would be tested to check for 