 
Page 18 of 29 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and 
sensitivity analysis on the Noise Impact Assessment (NIA) presented by the 
consultant. 
Assessment of normal operations (testing) has been undertaken; emergency 
operations have not been assessed as this is considered outside of normal 
operating procedures. 
  
• We assessed the operation of the closest generators to residential 
receptors operating simultaneously over an hour-long period. This has 
been undertaken as a worst-case scenario as length of testing has not 
been stated within the submitted NIA. 
• Operation of 2 generators simultaneously has been considered as the 
consultant has provided a proposed testing regime. 
• We tested sensitivity to the current standard ISO 9613:2024, the 
consultant has used the now superseded ISO 9613:1994. 
  
Based on our conservative approach, a low impact (+3dB above background) is 
predicted at NSRs at the proposed residential development adjacent to the 
proposed permitted site. If testing of generators does not occur concurrently at 
both buildings the impact is likely to be lower than what we have predicted.  
We are satisfied that the risk of noise impact from normal operations is low and 
the predicted increase at the nearest sensitive receptors is considered minor. 
 
Permit Conditions 
The Permit condition 2.3.3 limits emergency operation to 500 hours/ annum. 
Table S1.2 incorporates the maintenance and testing regime, which is less than 
50 hours/ generator. 
Emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not applicable to MCPs operating less 
than 500 hours per year. 
Emergency operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid 
to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring 
only within the data centre itself. The Environment Agency expects planned 
testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and 
durations (subject to client requirements). 
Each individual standby generator that is a new Medium Combustion Plant 
(MCP) is required to have stack monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) and NOx, 
refer to monitoring section below.  