 
Page 4 of 29 
an equivalent. These are the international standards that we have concluded that 
we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   
The operator has confirmed that the 42 generators to be used at the data centres 
are emissions optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard.  
We do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
Installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. HVO has 
the same sulphur content restrictions set in the permit as gas oil. 
Aqueous Releases from Site 
The Installation has separate foul and surface water drainage systems.  
The foul water from WW1 and WW2 enters the wider data centre foul water 
system before discharging to the Anglian Water foul sewer (subject to 
agreement).  
Surface water from SW1 flows to Ouzel Brook after treatment through the 
attenuation pond and oil separator. 
Point Source Emissions to Foul Sewer 
The foul water discharges from the permitted Installation will occur at two 
emission points, WW1 and WW2, as shown on the Installation Boundary and 
Emission Points Drawing. These discharges comprise surface water from 
generator refuelling laybys, which will pass through an oil interceptor before 
entering the foul drainage system.   
The connection to the Anglian Water foul sewer network is subject to agreement, 
for which an application has been submitted.  
 
Point Source Emissions to Surface Water Sewer 
The operator has confirmed that there will be no contaminated emissions to the 
public surface water sewer system associated with the regulated activity 
undertaken at the Installation. 
 
Uncontaminated surface water runoff from the Installation and the wider data 
centre site will flow to the attenuation pond (southwest corner), which has an 
impermeable liner and a Penstock valve for emergency isolation. Before 
discharge via SW1, water passes through the interceptor downstream of the flow 
control device, ensuring oil separation before entering an open water course 
(Ouzel Brook). 
Fuel spill kits will be present at the time of refuelling. All spillages will be logged, 
investigated and corrective action will be taken.   
 