 
Page 23 of 29 
The following improvement conditions (ICs) have been included in the permit: 
 
IC1 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
We have specified that the operator shall have a written action Air Quality 
Management Plan (AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency running 
of the plant and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours, as far 
as possible. This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. 
The operator is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop this plan to 
ensure local factors are fully considered. 
 
IC2 - Short-term nitrogen oxides and dust concentrations - monitoring 
plan 
We have set improvement condition 2 (IC2) requiring the operator to detail 
proposals and subsequently undertake a monitoring programme to verify the 
predicted short-term nitrogen oxides (NOx) and dust concentrations at the 
boundary of the site or off-site locations of sensitive receptors as appropriate. 
 
IC3 - Short-term nitrogen oxides and dust concentrations - monitoring 
report 
Improvement condition 3 (IC3) requires the operator to submit a report detailing 
the results and conclusions of the emissions monitoring undertaken as part of 
IC2. This will contribute to the validation of conclusions reached in the air 
quality assessment and inform the air quality management plan. IC3 also 
requires the operator to review the options for reducing the predicted emission 
impacts. The reduction measures are expected to achieve a reduction of 
impacts during both the maintenance/testing and emergency operations. In 
setting IC2 and IC3 we have considered the level of the NOx peaks predicted 
by the Applicant’s modelling. 
 
IC4 - Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for assessment and written 
approval by the Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the 
implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in table S3.1, 
in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified 
generators’ Published 04 June 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
 
We have included this improvement condition to ensure that they comply with the 
monitoring requirements of the permit.  
 