 
Page 10 of 29 
We carried out modelling checks and sensitivity analysis using ADMS version 
6.0.2.0 based on the consultant’s modelling files. The sensitivity analysis 
considered in this audit included:  
• Our own meteorological data observed at London Luton Airport 
meteorological station. 
• Using a lower short-term NOX to NO2 conversion ratio.  
• Consideration of acid and nitrogen deposition for the emergency scenario. 
 
Human Health Assessment 
For the testing and emergency scenarios, all PECs are predicted to be within the 
relevant long-term and short-term ES at all human health receptors. 
Routine testing and emergency operations are unlikely to make a significant 
contribution to or cause an exceedance of an environmental standard at human 
health receptors. 
 
Habitats Assessment 
For the emergency scenario, we cannot rule out exceedances of the daily NOx 
critical level of 200 µg/m³ at ecological receptors. However, as the 72-hour 
emergency scenario represents a national ‘black start’ power outage event, the 
likelihood of exceedances occurring is expected to be low. 
No other exceedances of critical levels or loads are predicted at any ecological 
receptor for either testing or emergency scenarios. 
Critical loads are not available on APIS for Sundon Chalk Quarry SSSI. The 
designated features at this SSSI are known to be sensitive to acid and nitrogen, 
and APIS recommends obtaining site-specific advice. As proxy values, applied a 
nitrogen deposition critical load of 10 kgN/ha/yr and the acid deposition critical 
load for ‘calcareous grassland,’ which is the likely habitat present. For added 
conservatism, our audit assessed against a lower nitrogen deposition critical load 
of 5 kgN/ha/yr. Predicted contributions (PCs) for testing and emergency 
scenarios are insignificant compared to these indicative critical loads. 
The facility emits NOx and SO₂, which can contribute to acidification, nutrient 
enrichment, and toxic contamination, potentially altering ecological composition.  
We carried out an audit on the operator’s assessment of the impact of NOx, SO₂, 
acid deposition, and nutrient nitrogen deposition on Sundon Chalk Quarry SSSI 
and Fancott Woods and Meadows SSSI. We concluded that for all scenarios, 
impacts are predicted to be insignificant or highly unlikely and are therefore not 
expected to damage the features of these SSSIs in any of the scenarios. 