 
Page 8 of 29 
health receptors. 99.79th percentile 1-hour NO2 PCs are predicted to be ‘not 
insignificant’ but predicted environmental concentrations (PECs) are not 
predicted to exceed the environmental standards (ES).  
 
Emergency scenario 
Their results indicate the following:  
• 1-hour 99.79th percentile NO2 PCs are predicted to exceed the ES. The 
consultant’s statistical analysis predicts that exceedances of the ES are 
unlikely to occur at all receptors, apart from at receptor HR17. They 
predict exceedances at HR17 are still unlikely to occur, because a 72-hour 
emergency outage is highly unlikely.  
 
• The consultant’s 100th percentile 1-hour, 10-minute and 30-minute NO2 
PCs are predicted to exceed the Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGL-
1) values at one receptor, HR17. Again, the low likelihood of a 72-hour 
emergency outage means that the consultant predicts that the chance of 
an exceedance is unlikely.  
 
• The consultant’s annual NO2 and 1-hour NO PCs are ‘not insignificant’, 
but PECs are not expected to exceed the ES. 
 
Consultant’s Conclusion:  
 
Impact on Human Receptors 
 
The consultant reports PCs and PECs from the facility at human health receptors 
in Appendix C of the AQA. Summaries of the results are provided in tables 13–18 
of the AQA, while NO PCs and annual PCs for the emergency scenario are 
presented in the technical note (tables 2–8). The results indicate: 
 
• Long-term ES: No exceedances for any modelled scenario. 
• Short-term ES: No exceedances for any modelled scenario. 
Apart from at receptor HR17 of which the predicted exceedances are still 
unlikely to occur, because a 72-hour emergency outage is highly unlikely 
due to grid reliability. 
• AEGL: No exceedances for any modelled scenario apart from the 72-hour 
emergency scenario at one receptor (HR17). 
• Cumulative impacts are also considered unlikely, given the negligible 
process contributions relative to background and standards, so operation 
of the neighbouring data centre facility is not expected to give rise to 
cumulative air quality impacts. 