 
Permit number 
EPR/AP3903PD 17 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
The results of the updated air dispersion model shall be used to 
inform the Air Quality Management Plan required under IC2. 
IC2 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to 
be taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be 
limited to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at 
individual receptors;  
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit  
the duration of an outage event as far as possible; 
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
Completed 
IC3 The operator shall submit a report for approval by the Environment 
Agency confirming that the maintenance testing requirement of the 
generators in London 5 and London 6 are consistent with the 
maintenance testing schedule anticipated and stated in the 
Application (response to second Schedule 5, question 6 – 15/02/21).   
Completed 
IC4 The operator shall submit a written drainage management plan to the 
Environment Agency for approval.  
The drainage management plan must include: 
• a drawing which is: 
o drawn to scale; 
o indicates the exact locations of all surface and 
subsurface drainage routes (surface water and foul 
sewer);  
o annotated with the location of on-site oil interceptors; 
and 
o annotated with the location of emissions to surface 
water.  
• a preventative maintenance schedule including detail such as 
minor and major inspections, their frequencies and identifying 
the person responsible for such inspections; and 
• a summary of any improvements required and a timeline for 
their implementation which is to be agreed by the 
Environment Agency.  
 
In the event the drainage management plan indicates there are 
surface water discharges from the facility which do not pass through 
an oil interceptor prior to discharge. The operator shall submit to the 
Environment Agency proposals and timescale for directing drainage to 
an oil interceptor prior to discharge off-site. 
The Operator shall implement the recommended improvements to the 
drainage system within the timescales approved by the Environment 
Agency.  
16/05/2022 
Submitted and under 
review 