 
Permit number 
EPR/AP3903PD 19 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
environmental risk assessment documentation submitted as part of 
application for variation V002. 
In addition, evidence shall be provided to demonstrate that the 
monitoring personnel holds appropriate qualifications. 
As part of this improvement condition, the Operator shall also propose 
a plan for approval by the Environment Agency addressing the 
periodic maintenance of the SCR system and calibration of the 
monitoring systems relied upon to attain a consistent and reliable NOx 
abatement performance.  
IC8 SCR fitting to London 8, phase 2 
The operator shall submit a report for approval by the Environment 
Agency confirming the completed installation and commissioning of 
the proposed selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems in the 
remaining 7 of the 14 engines in London 8.  
The report shall demonstrate that the performance of the SCR 
systems installed in each generator is confirmed to be compliant with 
the design specification and environmental risk assessment 
documentation submitted as part of application for variation V002. The 
performance testing shall include MCERTS air emission monitoring of 
oxides of nitrogen, according to standard BS EN 14792; and 
MCERTS air emission monitoring of ammonia, according to standard 
EN ISO 21877.  
The report shall demonstrate that the urea dosing has been optimised 
to prevent ammonia slip in excess of the figures modelled in the 
environmental risk assessment documentation submitted as part of 
application for variation V002. 
In addition, evidence shall be provided to demonstrate that the 
monitoring personnel holds appropriate qualifications. 
As part of this improvement condition, the Operator shall also propose 
a plan for approval by the Environment Agency addressing the 
periodic maintenance of the SCR system and calibration of the 
monitoring systems relied upon to attain a consistent and reliable NOx 
abatement performance. 
31/12/2025 
IC9 Performance of SCR systems 
The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment Agency 
for assessment and written approval. The report must contain: 
• Detailed information on the specification of the suitability of the 
NOx sensors and urea solution dosing to the SCR systems  
• Evidence of the initial calibration of the NOx sensors and 
verification of the levels of unabated and abated NOx 
emissions upstream and downstream of the SCR system 
according to a methodology consistent with web guide 
‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified 
generators’ Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as TGN 
M5)  
01/03/26 