 
    Page 6 of 11 
● We agree with the Applicant’s numerical predictions and the conclusions of 
their assessment summarised above. 
● The Applicant has not assessed potential impacts from emissions of nitric 
oxide (NO) against the relevant ES. Our checks indicate long-term and 
short-term PCs of NO are insignificant under the testing scenarios, and 
unlikely to be exceeded under the emergency scenario. 
● The conclusions of the assessment in relation to impacts from NH3 
emissions will not change when the installation of SCR is extended to the 
remaining 7 engines in London 8, while the impacts associated with 
emissions of NOx will be reduced. 
● The assessment has found that the conclusion within the original 
assessment remains valid, with the addition of the 4 generators. 
Operating hours 
The Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) will be operated on limited hours, with 
permit tables S1.1 and S1.2 securing the necessary requirements. 
New MCPs operating less than 500 hours per year as a three-year rolling 
average are exempt from meeting Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 
emission limits, refer to Emission limits section of this document. 
Permit conditions 
Condition 2.3.3 
The permit includes a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ 
for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion 
activity; and thereby emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not required within the 
permit. Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned hours required to 
come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but 
occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Condition 4.2.2 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any 
electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) requires both 
immediate notification to the Environment Agency and annual reporting. 
Table S1.1 (Activities) 
The table has been updated to include the additional engines and selective SCR 
abatement. 