 
Permit number 
EPR/AP3903PD 18 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC5 The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of 
the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in Table S3.1, in line 
with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and 
specified generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as 
TGN M5). The plan shall include, but not limited to: 
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a 
proposal to install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints 
affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed 
deviation from the testing regime specified in table S3.1. 
Completed 
IC6 The operator shall submit a plan to reduce the predicted short term 
nitrogen dioxide (NOx) emissions impacts during the maintenance, 
testing and emergency operations of the standby generators installed 
in London 5 and London 6 data halls. This shall include (but should 
not be limited to):  
• A feasibility study assessing the potential upgrades to the 
infrastructure or other changes to the operational regimes that 
could reduce emissions of NOx and increase dispersion. The 
study shall include an assessment of the following options 
(not limited to): changes to stack configuration to enhance 
dispersion; reduced testing schedule; upgrading the standby 
engines to reduce emissions or installing newer ones with 
lower emissions of NOx; installing NOx abatement. 
• A proposal for the implementation of the improvement options 
that are considered feasible and economically viable, 
including detailed justification and cost information in support 
of the justification; and 
• A proposal for the shortest practical timescale for the 
implementation of the selected improvements.  
The plan and the proposed timescale for improvement shall be 
submitted to the Environment Agency in writing for approval. 
Completed 
IC7 SCR fitting to London 8, phase 1 
The operator shall submit a report for approval by the Environment 
Agency confirming the completed installation and commissioning of 
the proposed selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems on 7 of the 
14 engines in London 8.  
The report shall demonstrate that the performance of the SCR 
systems installed in each generator is confirmed to be compliant with 
the design specification and environmental risk assessment 
documentation submitted as part of application for variation V002. The 
performance testing shall include MCERTS air emission monitoring of 
oxides of nitrogen, according to standard BS EN 14792; and 
MCERTS air emission monitoring of ammonia, according to standard 
EN ISO 21877.  
The report shall demonstrate that the urea dosing has been optimised 
to prevent ammonia slip in excess of the figures modelled in the 
31/03/2023 