 
    Page 8 of 11 
The tanker unloading area will be dished to a central drain with the total volume 
retention of 7620 litres and a two chamber SPEL Puraceptor Class 1 full retention 
interceptor (model P030/2CSC/M or similar), with automatic closure and 300 litre 
retention capacity within the chamber. The discharge from this will be tied into the 
existing drains. 
Choice of fuel 
There are no changes to the permitted fuel type. 
Emission limits 
Based on the operational requirements, we have not set any emission limits. 
As there are no limits, permit condition 2.3.3 ‘The activities shall not operate for 
more than 500 hours per year’ has been included to restrict the hours of 
operation. The operator will be required to record operating hours and the 
number of runs for each of the generators. 
Monitoring requirements 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from all MCPs, 
with a minimum frequency of once every 1500 hours of operation or every five 
years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been included in the permit in 
order to comply with the requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive, 
which specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon monoxide 
emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides from all MCPs 
with the same frequency specified for the monitoring of carbon monoxide 
emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied our regulatory 
discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence 
with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk associated with 
the emissions of NOx from the installation. 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the generators operating at 
the installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for carbon 
monoxide and NOx, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 23 July 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have also specified continuous process monitoring of levels of nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) from emission points A61-A78 because these generators are fitted 