 
Permitting decisions  
Bespoke permit  
We have decided to grant the permit for East India Dock Road, London North and London East Data Centres 
operated by Global Switch Limited. 
The permit number is EPR/BP3530YR. 
We consider in reaching that decision we have taken into account all relevant considerations and legal 
requirements and that the permit will ensure that the appropriate level of environmental protection is 
provided. 
Purpose of this document 
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It summarises the decision 
making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors have been taken in to account.  
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It: 
• highlights key issues in the determination 
• summarises the decision making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors 
have been taken into account 
• shows how we have considered the consultation responses. 
Unless the decision document specifies otherwise we have accepted the applicant’s proposals. 
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit. The introductory note 
summarises what the permit covers. 
Key issues of the decision 
Description of the installation 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Schedule 1 Part A(1) 1.1 activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 or more megawatts (MW). 
The combustion plant provides for the event of a failure in the electrical supply, whereby the operator will 
utilise standby Diesel Rotary Uninterruptable Power (DRUP) units to maintain operational resilience. The 
DRUPS will not be used solely for the purpose for generating power for the facility . They can be employed as 
providers of a scheme known as Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) This would mean 
occasionally running the DRUPS units to support the site in response to frequency dips in the electricity 
supply. This would reduce demand on the national grid and likely prevent outages to the surrounding area.  
However when the facility operates in this manner the generators will be equivalent to tranche A generators 
and so will have to comply with an emission limit of 190mg/m3 for oxides of nitrogen as soon as practicable, 
as required by the specified generator regulations, and improvement condition IC 2 has been set within the 
permit to reflect this.  This is discussed further in this document in the section “BAT for FCDM Operations”. 
 
The data centres are known as London North and London East.  
EPR/BP3530YR/A001 
Date issued: 25/6/2019 
 1 