 
                       Page 14 of 28 
As noted previously, the operator has confirmed that the National Grid’s National 
Electricity Transmission System Performance Report 2021-21 reported the longest loss 
of supply lasted 454 minutes (7.5 hours in Tinsley Park, Sheffield over 190km north of 
the Amazon Hemel Hempstead site). 
The National Grid’s National Electricity Transmission System Performance Report 2020-
219 states that the overall reliability of supply during 2020–21 was: 99.999966%.  
During 2020–21, the Report states that there were 455 events where transmission 
circuits were disconnected either automatically or by urgent manual switching. The vast 
majority of these events had no impact on electricity users, with 10 resulting in loss of 
supplies to customers. None of the supply incidents reported in 2020-2021 were in the 
vicinity of the data centre site. The total estimated unsupplied energy for these 10 
incidents during 2020–21 was 74.36 MWh. 
The probability of a significant National Grid outage resulting in prolonged operation of 
the emergency back-up generators is therefore very low. 
The operator has also incorporated additional resilience on site about electrical power 
supply. 
Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) systems are in place on IT racks. There is a 100kVA 
UPS system installed within the house electrical room that serves all areas outside of the 
data hall. Two 40kVA UPS units are also installed within each of the data hall electrical 
rooms, serving the data hall controls to manage any short-term fluctuations of the mains 
power supply. 
The power distribution system, on the data centre site, starting from the High Voltage 
(HV) (132kV) intake substation down to the Low Voltage distribution, is designed to be 
safe, reliable, robust, and efficient and have in-built redundancy.  
 
Similarly, for the grid connection to the data centre to fail, it would require a number of 
failures to the upstream distribution network to occur simultaneously. 
 
The Operator has designed and implemented systems with built-in redundancy, based 
on High Voltage power supply connections from an electricity grid, being the primary 
power source to the site. A dual redundant circuit provides security of supply in the event 
of a fault or loss of supply from one source with the other circuit capable of supplying full 
load to the site. To achieve this redundancy, the operator is implementing a system that 
will entail the full electrical supply being split 50%/50% (dual-feeds) from alternative 
supply sources, each capable of supplying the 100%, if required, of the data centre 
power. 
 
Essentially, the data centre will be supplied from the National Grid by an adjacent 
132/33kV substation with two separate circuits from two separate feeders from the 
Elstree National Grid (NG) 400/132kV upstream substation. In the event of a loss of 
supply from a single source, 50% of the development is still on the alternative source, 
while the remaining 50% is on back-up emergency generators temporarily until the site’s 
own distribution system can be rearranged to resume supply from the available source. 