 
                       Page 15 of 28 
This arrangement stays in place until the failed source has restored supply, at which 
point power returns to the two supply sources. 
 
The operator further noted that the Elstree substation is an important National Grid 
substation with capacity of more than 2750MVA. 
 
The Operator also undertakes a regular and robust infrastructure inspection, preventive 
maintenance and testing programme and has an integrated Building Management 
System (BMS) and an Electrical Power Monitoring System (EPMS) which are additional 
control tools used to monitor physical assets and equipment status and performance. 
These measures also minimise the potential for emergency operation of the generators, 
reducing the overall environmental impact from the installation, in the rare event that 
they are triggered. 
 
Phasing. 
The operator noted that full data centre operation will occur over a number of phases 
with data rooms (and accompanying generators) being deployed in groups. 
 
The construction of the new High Voltage (HV) substation and new 132kV HV supply 
ducts and cables for the site was not scheduled to begin until August 2023. The 
substation and grid connection were due to be ready for energisation in May 2024, which 
is when the full design resilience will be in place. 
 
The power distribution system shall for a short period of time (estimated 3 months) be at 
Medium Voltage (MV) (11kV) for the Phase 1 building, which will be on a single feed 
connection. In the unlikely event of a power failure in this single feed grid connection 
during this interim period, one main backup generator serving the data hall and one 
smaller house generator serving the office facilities would be utilised to provide sufficient 
emergency power for Phase 1. 
 
In this brief period before the HV substation connection at the site is operational, the risk 
of potential environmental impacts through the use of the backup generators is therefore 
considered to be very small, due to the low Phase 1 load requirements. 
 
Containment and Gas Oil/HVO Spill Management. 
The data centre will utilise one bulk fuel storage tank of 40m3 capacity which is 
contained within a bund with a capacity of more than 110% of the storage capacity of the 
tank (in reality, the bund volume is approximately 75m3). The bund walls are not the 
same height all around – the walls closer to the tank are higher to prevent jetting over 
the top of the bund walls.  
This storage volume has been set to meet the operator’s requirement that there is 
sufficient fuel to the generators to provide uninterrupted power for three days without any 
external assistance. The tank has integral level alarms remotely monitored allowing 