concentration with high spatial and temporal variability with some long-term concentrations exceeding the ES 
at receptor locations. We agree with the Applicants methodology in predicting the impacts from the 
Installation on the AQMA and their conclusions that there will be no significant pollution or harm to human 
health. 
.  
 
.  
 
Permit conditions 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant  
producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity; and thereby emission limit values ELVs 
to air (and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit  because the MCPD exempts 
emergency plant from needing emission limits. Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned hours 
required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring only 
within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring under IED/MCPD. Though 
clearly the Environment Agency requires planned testing and generator operations to be organised to 
minimise occasions and durations (subject to client requirements). This is provided through general condition 
1.1 of the Permit. 
Operations and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by 
minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) requires both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
BAT 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres as they provide a fast start to generate electricity in the event of a Grid failure. The Environment 
Agency has determined therefore, that DRUPS can be consider BAT for Data Centres.  
In the event of a sustained loss of grid power, data centre infrastructure is designed to react to restore 
electrical provision by operating the emergency backup DRUPS / diesel generators. In most circumstances 
the DRUPS / generators will only operate during the time taken (approx. 15 minutes) to switch to an alternate 
grid supply that is unaffected (known as “bus coupling”). The short operation of the generation plant means 
the likelihood of any impact on air quality is low.  
In the unlikely event that all supplies are compromised the DRUPS / generators will run until the fault is 
repaired. This event is considered to be very rare, often described as a 1 in a 100 year event due to the 
catastrophic failure that would be required in the grid supply / supplying power station. In such a  
circumstance, the DRUPS / generators may run for a prolonged period.  
BAT for prolonged operation of the generation plant would be to implement an Air Quality Management Plan 
(AQMP). The main aim of this would be to restore grid supply as soon as practic able to limit the operation of 
the DRUPS / generators and to mitigate the impacts of their operation.  
BAT may also include an Air Quality Incident Response Plan (AQIRP). This would be based on a decision tree 
aimed at notifying highly sensitive receptors / the Environment Agency (EA) in the event of a prolonged grid 
outage (engines operate over several hours). This would include observations on the current weather 
conditions / wind direction / time of day / day of the week and their likely impact on local air quality.  As this is 
a Data Centre, we have set an Improvement Condition in the Permit to provide this certainty.  
At the Installation, the generation plant is operated for either emergency or non-emergency purposes. 
Emergency operation is where the grid fails or there is a fluctuation in the supply that causes the DRUPS / 
generators to operate. Non-emergency operation of the generation plant is generally constrained to 
maintenance and testing. The maintenance tests are 15 minutes for the DRUPS and 1 hour per year for the 
generators. Tests are generally scheduled in advance to meet customer Service Level Agreements (SLA s), 
and operational requirements.  
 
EPR/BP3530YR/A001 
Date issued: 25/6/2019 
 4 