 
Permitting Decisions - Bespoke Permit 
 
    Page 1 of 28 
We have decided to grant the permit for Hemel Hempstead Data Centre operated by 
Amazon Data Services UK Limited. 
The permit number is EPR/BP3546QP. 
The application is for the operation of a data centre which is regulated as a Schedule 1, 
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016 for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a thermal input 
of 50 or more megawatts (MW). Only the combustion activities (including fuel storage 
and handling) are regulated by the environmental permit – not the wider operation of the 
data halls themselves. 
The site is comprised of 33 containerised generators for emergency back-up energy 
purposes with a combined thermal input capacity of 222MWth. Thirty of the back-up 
generators are double-stacked with two included as secondary redundancy back-up. 
There is also a smaller “house” generator to cover non-critical operations in an 
emergency – such as office lights and the office fire system. 
The emergency back-up generators can be operated on gas oil or HVO (hydrotreated 
vegetable oil). 
There are also two fire pumps in the sprinkler pump house that will operate to suppress 
fires in the data halls only. These are rated at 104kW thermal output (approximately 
300kW thermal input) and can only operate on gas oil, not HVO. Their presence on site 
was identified during an Environment Agency visit. Although they should be included 
within the permit, they have been excluded at this time due to the determination being 
complete at time of their discovery. They can be added to the permit at a subsequent 
variation. 
There will also be fuel storage facilities regulated under this permit: 
- Each generator will have a “belly tank” capable of holding 16m3 capacity. 
- A storage tank of 40m3 capacity will be used to fill the “belly tanks”. 
The storage tank is located within a bund capable of containing 110% of the capacity of 
the tank. Each “belly tank” is containerised and self-bunded to contain 110% of the tank. 
The generators will be used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility in 
the event of a failure of supply from the National Grid, or an internal component failure 
requiring disconnection from the grid. No electricity will be exported from the installation. 
A testing regime is in place which requires the generators to be operated for a defined 
period of time at arranged intervals to minimise air quality impact and to ensure the 
generators are available to operate in the event of an emergency. 