 
Permit number                               
EPR/BP3546QP 12 
Table S1.2 Operating techniques 
Description Parts Date Received 
- question 4 on the containment of the contents of a road 
tanker of gas oil. 
- question 6e on the testing and removal of rainwater in 
the fuel storage tank bund. 
- question 6f on the use of alarms and overfill protection 
on the fuel storage tank. 
- question 7b on the leak detection system operated on 
the “belly tanks”. 
- question 8a on the maintenance of spill kits. 
- question 9 on the maintenance of drainage pipes, geo-
cellular attenuation tanks and proprietary treatment 
systems. 
- question 10a on discharges to foul water and surface 
water from the fuel loading area and “belly tanks” area. 
- question 13 on the scheduling of maintenance and 
testing scenarios to minimise potential air quality and 
noise impacts on off-site receptors. 
- question 15a on generator operation after National Grid 
failure. 
- question 16 outlining the operation of National Grid 
resilience systems during commissioning and operation 
of the data centre. 
- question 17a on fire detection within generator container 
units. 
Additional information 
received 
Operating techniques described in the information received 
(including accompanying information): 
- Response to question on operation of gas oil top-up tank 
bund to prevent jetting outside of the bund. 
- Response to question on commissioning phasing of 
generator operation. 
01/09/2023 
Additional information 
received 
Testing and maintenance regime on back-up generators: 
Table 4, Additional Air Quality and Noise Assessment, Rev3 
24/10/2023 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations: 
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors.  
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit the 
duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours as far as 
possible. 
• Specific timescales for response measures. 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day. 
• The potential for an indicative continuous air quality monitoring 
system to operate in the event of grid failure. 
01/08/2024 