 
                       Page 13 of 28 
We expect that the minimum specification for new back-up generators to minimise 
impact on air quality is 2g TA-Luft or Tier II US EPA, or equivalent with a maximum NOx 
emission concentration of 2,000mg/m3 at standard reference conditions and 5% oxygen. 
The generators to be installed at the Amazon Hemel Hempstead data centre have 
emissions that meet this requirement. 
 
Noise. 
As only the gas oil/HVO generators and bulk gas oil/HVO storage tanks are included 
within the installation boundary, the most significant noise sources will be the operation 
of those generators and tanker movements on site delivering fuel. Other noise sources 
such as the chillers and fans serving the main data centre halls are not included within 
the installation boundary. 
The operator submitted a Noise Impact Assessment which they subsequently updated to 
consider impact on the new apartments which will be the closest inhabited dwellings 
once they are constructed. They used manufacturer’s sound data for the new generators 
and considered a worst-case scenario where all generators are operating at the same 
time. As discussed previously, this would only occur in the unlikely case of full National 
Grid power outage. 
The operator concluded that the existing residual sound level is higher than the predicted 
specific sound level at the nearest receptors and that, therefore, it was unlikely that the 
data centre specific sound level will be audible against the existing soundscape. 
With this worst-case scenario and very conservative approach, the operator concluded 
that the sound emissions from the data centre will be equivalent to a low impact or below 
adverse impact at the residential receptors. 
We have audited the operator’s noise impact assessment and noise modelling and 
agree with their conclusions. 
We have decided that no specific noise requirements are required in the permit other 
than the standard condition, 3.4. 
 
Electrical Reliability. 
The operator noted that power for the data centre will be supplied by the National Grid 
which operates its transmission system in accordance with the Security and Quality of 
Supply Standard which is a requirement of its Transmission Licence. In accordance with 
this standard, a level of redundancy is also built into the transmission system. 