pollutants. The Applicant’s consultant has assessed potential impacts at human and ecological receptors of 
nitrogen oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and particulates (PM10) for testing and 
emergency operation of the generators. 
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) audited the air dispersion modelling and report 
submitted with the permit application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
modelling were assessed. 
 
Maintenance testing 
Scenario 1: Planned maintenance  
- Each of the London North engines (9 engines) operate one time per year for 15 min at 20% load, which 
have been modelled as each engine operate annually for 1 hour. For example, one Broadcrown engine is 
tested at 20% load for 1 hour within the year.  
- Each group of the London East engines (37 engines) operate for 1 hour per week at either 50- 60% or 20% 
loads. For example, one group of engines consisting of 10 Eurodiesel DRUP engines are tested weekly for 1 
hour at 50% load.  
 
All long term Predicted Environmental Concentrations (PECs) are not likely to exceed the Environmental 
Standard (ES) at human receptors.  
All short term PCs are either less than the 10% insignificance threshold of any ES, or PECs are below 100% 
of any ES at human receptors.  
Their predictions are insignificant at ecological receptors for all ES.  
 
The results show that there is a negligible risk of the process resulting in an exceedance of the EQSs and we 
agree with this conclusion. 
Improvement condition IC1 is specified in the permit which requires the operator to produce a report 
outlining the details of the annual maintenance operating regime following the first year of oper ation 
following permitting to validate the information provided with the permit application.  
Emergency scenario 
Scenario 2: Scenario 1 plus a number of grid outages with engines operating at 100% load:  
- The outages at London North involve the operation of individual generators running from 1 to 5 hours per 
year i.e. one generator at a time with a maximum of 10 hours per year;  
- the outages at London East involve the operation of a group of 25 generators at once for 13 hours and a 
group of 10 generators at once for 10 hours per year.  
 
Scenario 3: London East outages of scenario 2  
 
Scenario 4: Emergency - All engines operating full time at 100% load for a period of 48 hours per year  
 
The consultant’s predicted Process Contributions (PCs) and Predicted Environmental Concentrations (PECs) 
for human receptors, for all scenarios show the following:  
Long term PCs for all pollutants are less than 1% of the ES with the exception of NO
2 which has a PEC of 
less than 100% of the ES at receptor locations for all scenarios.  
All short term PCs are either less than the 10% insignificance threshold of the ES or the PECs are below 
100% ES for all pollutants and scenarios, except for short-term PCs of NO2 hourly 99.79th percentile for 
emergency scenario.  
With regard to emergency scenario 4, short term PCs are not insignificant with little headroom, leading to 
PEC values higher than 100% of the ES. Under the emergency scenario statistical analysis has been used 
to show that at the worst case receptor exceedences of the ES greater than 19 times  (the EQS allows for 18 
times) in any 48 hour period will only occur for around 6% of the year. In reality such a scenario will never 
probably occur and we therefore consider the environmental risk to be acceptable.  
Background concentrations used by the applicant were taken from Defra’s UK Air Quality Archive (1 km x 1 
km grid square) from 2001 for SO2 and CO and Local authority pollutant measurement data for 2015 and 
2016 from sites located within the Tower Hamlets Council area. It is recognised that the engines have been 
operating since the early part of 2008 and therefore those emissions for part of the recorded background 
concentrations. Tower Hamlets Council undertakes monitoring of both NO 2 and PM10 at a number of 
locations using both automatic analysers and diffusion tubes across the borough. They used a background 
of 35.5 μg/m3 for NO2, 22 μg/m3 for PM10, 0.5 μg/m3 for CO and 4.3 μg/m3 for SO2. Since the dispersion site 
is an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) declared for NO2 there is likely to be a high background 
EPR/BP3530YR/A001 
Date issued: 25/6/2019 
 3 