Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
• Regard for how local conditions during a grid failure might 
influence the response required, for example meteorological 
conditions or time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for approval prior to implementation. 
IC2 Submit a written plan to the Environment Agency for technical assessment 
and approval. The plan must contain  the measures to comply with an 
emission limit of 190mg/m3 for oxides of nitrogen for all engines which will 
operate Frequency Control by Demand Management  after 30/11/20. The 
operator shall undertake a full appraisal, including cost/benefit analysis, of 
the practicable, technical and economic feasibility of reducing aerial 
emissions by such means as installing selective catalytic reduction (SCR), 
increasing the emission point stack heights to improve dispersion of 
pollutants or other such techniques. Where development is identified to be 
practicable, as well as technically and economically feasible; the report 
shall contain a schedule of works, with timescales for completion. 
 
The notification requirements of condition 2.4.2 will be deemed to have 
been complied with on submission of the plan. 
 
You must implement the plan as approved , and from the date stipulated 
by the Environment Agency 
 
Submission of 
Plan 
30/11/2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Implementation 
of Plan 
30/11/2020 
IC3 The operator shall undertake a site drainage survey of sub- surface 
drainage systems within the installation boundary and provide a report to 
establish the integrity of the systems and demonstrate that the risk of 
fugitive emissions from the installation is minimised.  
Where the requirement for improvements is identified, the report shall 
include a schedule of works for the proposed improvements with 
timescales for completion. 
Completion of the survey shall also establish the location(s) where 
discharge of site drainage from the site enters the combined sewer, as 
required by Table S3.2, and confirm if any abatement (such as 
interceptors) is afforded to the discharge. 
Within 12 
months of 
permit issue 
 
 
 
Schedule 2 – Waste types, raw materials and fuels 
Table S2.1 Raw materials and fuels 
Raw materials and fuel description Specification 
Gas oil  Not exceeding 0.1% w/w sulphur content 
  
Permit number 
EPR/BP3530YR 12 