London North has a total of 6 diesel generators and 3 DRUPS units. The total thermal capacity of this 
installation is 32 MWth. Fuel for these engines is stored in underground tanks to the north of the Data Centre 
building (90.000 litres) as well as within tanks internal to the building on level 1 (72,000 litres).  
London East has a total of 37 DRUPS units with a total thermal capacity of 159 MWth. These units are 
grouped into four power stations named B, C, D and H1. Fuel for these units is stored underground to the 
north of the Data Centre building (480,000 litres).  
 
The two buildings are only separated by a private road and are considered to be part of a single site.  Where 
2 or more appliances with an aggregated thermal input of 50MW are operated on the same site by the same 
operator they must be treated as a single appliance.  We therefore consider that this is a single installation 
undertaking an activity within section1.1 A(1) of schedule 1 EPR - burning any fuel in an appliance with a 
rated thermal input of 50 or more MW.  
The installation provides a total aggregated thermal input of 191 MWth.  
No electricity will be exported from the installation.   
The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all or some of the 
generators will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load demand at the site. All the generators 
are subject to a testing schedule which is as follows:  
Planned Operation  
The testing regime of the generator/DRUPS units for each building is described below. This is the minimum 
duration that the units are expected to run.  
London North  
Each unit is tested at building load for one hour annually. This is usually scheduled for the summer months 
and one unit would be tested per day until complete.  
London East  
The DRUPS units are tested weekly off-load for 15 minutes. Every month there is a 15 minute test at building 
load.  
Unplanned Operation  
The generators/DRUPS units are used to support the building in times of grid failure. The DRUPS units are 
more sensitive to dips in frequency in the electricity supply and therefore run more often than the diesel 
generators. There have been no brown or black outs exceeding 15 minutes in the history of the site’s 
operation.  
Frequency Control by Demand Management  
Global Switch are providers of a scheme known as Frequency Control by Demand Management (F CDM). 
This would mean occasionally running the DRUPS units to support the site in response to frequency dips in 
the electricity supply. This would reduce demand on the national grid and likely prevent outages to the 
surrounding area.  
The sites DRUPS would operate during these frequency dips regardless of whether the site engages in 
FCDM as the threshold to operate is the same. The only difference is the DRUPS will operate for 15 minutes 
more each time they operate. It is expected that would not happen more than 12 times in one year.  
 
The facility is located in the Poplar area of London and the campus is centred on National Grid 
Reference TQ 3858 8099.  
 
The site is located in close proximity to the River Thames which has been designated as a Marine Nature 
Reserve. There are no source protection zones or groundwater protection zones in the vicinity of the site.  
There will be no process effluent discharge from the installation. Uncontaminated water from roof and hard 
standing run off will drain via a below ground surface water drainage system.  
The installation will operate an Environment Management System in line with the requirements of ISO 
14001.  
 
There is one Special Area of Conservation (SAC), one Special protection Area (SPA) within 10km of the 
installation and 17 local wildlife sites (LWS) located within 2km of the installation.  
 
Air Quality  
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO2) resulting from the combustion process 
on site. The Applicant has submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the potential impact of 
emission of NO2 from the generators on local air quality.  
The site is located in the Borough of Tower Hamlets. The Borough is designated as an Air Quality Management 
Area (AQMA) as the background concentrations of NO 2 and PM 10 occasionally exceed the AQS for those 
EPR/BP3530YR/A001 
Date issued: 25/6/2019 
 2 