 
                       Page 16 of 28 
instantaneous accurate assessment of the filling level and a high-level alarm to prevent 
over-filling. During the filling operation, an audible alarm sounds when the fuel tank is 
85% full. A further alarm is generated at 90% which closes the motorised fill valve. 
Finally, a mechanical overfill prevention valve is provided at 95% which shuts off the fill 
line to the tank. The filling operation is attended at all times. 
A road tanker will fill up the bulk fuel storage tank using a fill point in a lockable cabinet. 
The tanker will be parked on an area of slab that slopes towards a central drain which is 
connected to a full retention oil separator that is alarmed.  
The operator has based the capacity of the oil separator on the fact that fuel tankers are 
all separated into multiple fuel compartments due to potential differences in the grade of 
fuels being carried and also to protect against the unlikely event of catastrophic failure. 
The oil separator connected to the foul water drain in the tanker filling area has been 
designed to accommodate the rupture of a single compartment (1/3) of a delivery tanker, 
which is approximately 8m3 (8000 litres). Furthermore, this hardstanding delivery and 
slab-decline area has been sized appropriately to accommodate and contain the entire 
contents of a 26m3 (26,000 litres) fuel tanker.  
 
The bulk storage tank will be used to fuel the individual ‘belly tanks’ for each generator 
which are 16m3 in capacity each. Each belly tank is containerised and self-bunded to 
contain 110% of the storage capacity of the tank (the outer tank can contain 110% of the 
total tank contents). The fuel for these ‘belly tanks’ will routinely be pumped directly from 
the bulk storage tank but they can be filled directly from within their contained area 
should that be required. 
The ‘belly tanks’ are alarmed in the event of pressure loss/significant leakage into the 
bund, as well as having alarms which alert at high and low fuel levels, both during filling 
and routine operation. These alarms are remotely monitored via the generator control 
system. The operator will also carry out daily checks for any signs of smaller leakage not 
notified by the alarm system. 
The operator has located some fuel pipework underground to prevent the risk of damage 
by collisions from vehicles. The below ground route is served by vacuum leak detection 
which is connected to the central management system monitored 24 hours a day. This 
system will identify any issues in either the inner or outer layers of the double contained 
underground pipework to give early detection of any issues in this route. Should any 
leaks or issues be encountered, the fuel pipeline and fuel distribution will be closed at 
both ends (top-up tank to generator yard) to minimise any potential impacts and before 
any necessary remedial action is taken. 
All tanks, pipes and valves are designed to appropriate industry standards and flanged 
connections between pipes are kept to a minimum. 
There is an automatically triggered safe plant emergency shutdown in the event of major 
faults in equipment being detected. 
Spill kits are provided at key locations on site should any fuel spillage occur. 