 
                       Page 20 of 28 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with the 
relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate techniques for 
the facility. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 in the 
environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for emissions that do not screen 
out as insignificant 
Emissions of NOx cannot be screened out as insignificant with regard to impact on 
human health receptors for the emergency scenario of generator operation in relation to 
exceedances of Environmental Assessment Levels (EALs) and United States Acute 
Exposure Guideline Levels for Hazardous Substances (AEGLs). 
Emissions of NOx, SO2, nutrient nitrogen deposition and acid deposition cannot be 
screened out as insignificant for the emergency scenario of generator operation with 
regard to their impact on ecological sites (ancient woodland and local wildlife sites). 
We have assessed whether the proposed techniques are Best Available Techniques 
(BAT). 
We regard the emergency generator operation scenario to be very unlikely to occur. The 
site has built in resilience for National Grid failure as it is not dependent on one single 
source of power from the National Grid. 
See the Key Issues section for further details. 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as 
insignificant 
Emissions of NOx, SO2, PM10 and PM2.5 have been screened out as insignificant with 
regard to impact on human health receptors for the maintenance and testing scenarios, 
and so we agree that the applicant’s proposed techniques are Best Available 
Techniques (BAT) for the installation. 
Emissions of NOx, SO2, nutrient nitrogen deposition and acid deposition have been 
screened out as insignificant with regard to impact on all ecological receptors for the 
maintenance and testing scenarios and screened out as insignificant with regard to the 
Chiltern Beechwoods Special Conservation Area (SAC) for the emergency generator 
operation scenario also, and so we agree that the applicant’s proposed techniques are 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) for the installation. 
We consider that the emission limits included in the installation permit reflect the BAT for 
the sector. 