Aspect considered Decision 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared 
these with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
See Key Issues section above for further details. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Permit conditions 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. 
We have imposed an improvement programme as outlined in the key issues 
section above. 
Emission limits We have decided to set emission limits in the permit to cover for the 
Operator deciding to operate under FCDM in the future once compliant with 
improvement condition IC 2. 
Reporting We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is 
being operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to 
ensure that we are notified immediately in the instance that the site ever 
operated in emergency scenario mode. 
Operator competence 
Management system There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Relevant convictions 
 
The Case Management System and National Enforcement Database have 
been checked to ensure that all relevant convictions have been declared.  
No relevant convictions were found. The operator satisfies the criteria in our 
guidance on operator competence. 
Financial competence There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be 
financially able to comply with the permit conditions.  
Growth Duty 
Section 108 Deregulation 
Act 2015 – Growth duty  
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and 
the guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to 
grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of 
regulators, these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to 
development or growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a 
factor that all specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the 
delivery of the protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental 
standards to be set for this operation in the body of the decision document 
above. The guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not 
legitimise non-compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue 
economic growth at the expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of 
pollution. This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because 
the standards applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in 
this sector and have been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
EPR/BP3530YR/A001 
Date issued: 25/6/2019 
 8 