 
Permit number                               
EPR/BP3546QP 2 
Hemel Hempstead Data Centre  
Permit number EPR/BP3546QP 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
This permit authorises the operation by Amazon Data Services UK Limited of: 
- A number of medium combustion plant (MCP) with thermal input between 1 and 50MWth which 
aggregate to >50MWth. 
This is regulated as a Schedule 1, Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) activity under the Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2016 for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a thermal input of 50 
or more megawatts (MW). 
The site is comprised of 33 containerised generators for emergency back-up energy purposes with a 
combined thermal input capacity of 222MWth. The generators can operate on gas oil or HVO (hydrotreated 
vegetable oil). 
The details of the individual generator inputs and associated limits and monitoring requirements are specified 
in Tables S1.1 and S3.1.  
Thirty of the back-up generators are double stacked, the remaining three have individual stacks.  Two 
generators are included as secondary redundancy back-up. There is also a smaller “house” generator to 
cover non-critical operations during an emergency – such as office lights and the office fire system etc. 
All stacks terminate at 25m above ground. 
There will also be fuel storage facilities regulated under this permit: 
- Each generator will have a “belly tank” capable of holding 16m3 capacity. 
- A storage tank of 40m3 capacity will be used to fill the “belly tank”. 
The storage tank is located within a bund capable of containing 110% of the capacity of the tank. 
Each “belly tank” is containerised and self-bunded to contain 110% of the tank. 
The generators will be used solely for the purpose for generating power for the facility. No electricity will be 
exported from the installation. 
A testing regime is in place which requires the generators to be operated for a defined period at pre-
arranged intervals to ensure the generators are available to operate in the event of an emergency. 
There are two gas oil pumps that serve the sprinkler system for the data halls in the event of fire. They are 
rated at 104kw thermal output (approximately 300kW thermal input) and operate on gas oil not HVO. They 
are located within the sprinkler pump house which is not within the installation boundary for this permit. We 
have not included them within this permit at this stage.  
The data centre is located within the Prologis Industrial Park located within a light industrial and commercial 
area towards the east of Hemel Hempstead.  
The northern boundary of the site consists of a number of businesses and a multi-storey car park. There are 
warehouses to the east; to the west there is a self-storage facility; and to the southwest there is a hotel, car 
park and open space. Residential properties are located further to the west and south, approximately 100m 
from the site boundary. Several major roads are located in proximity to the site, including the A414 
(Breakspear Way) to the south, the A4147 (Maylands Avenue) to the west. The M1 motorway is located 
1.2km to the east. 