London North and London East Data Centres  
Permit number EPR/BP3530YR 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The permit is for the operation of a combination of Diesel Rotary Uninterruptable Power Supply (DRUPS) 
units and diesel generators, to provide backup power generation to two neighbouring data centres in the 
event of National Grid failure and planned maintenance. The facility is located in the Poplar area of London 
and the campus is centred on National Grid Reference TQ 3858 8099.  
Electrical power is provided to the data centres from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise standby DRUP units to maintain operational resilience.  
Furthermore, the DRUPS can be employed as providers of a scheme known as Frequency Control by 
Demand Management (FCDM) This would mean occasionally running the DRUPS units to support the site in 
response to frequency dips in the electricity supply. This would reduce demand on the national grid and likely 
prevent outages to the surrounding area. As the plant will operate FCDM improvement condition IC2 has 
been set to ensure that the generators will comply with a 190mg/m3 emission limit for oxides of nitrogen from 
30/11/20. Should the Operator decide that during the period between the permit issue date and the end date 
of IC2, 30/11/20 they wish to cease operating FCDM then that is their choice.  
The data centres are known as London North and London East.  
London North has a total of 6 diesel generators and 3 DRUPS units. The total thermal capacity of this 
installation is 32 MWth. Fuel for these engines is stored in underground tanks to the north of the Data Centre 
building (90.000 litres) as well as within tanks internal to the building on level 1 (72,000 litres).  
London East has a total of 37 DRUPS units with a total thermal capacity of 159 MWth. These units are 
grouped into four power stations named B, C, D and H1. Fuel for these units is stored underground to the 
north of the Data Centre building (480,000 litres).  
The two buildings are only separated by a private road and are considered to be part of a single site.  Where 
2 or more appliances with an aggregated thermal input of 50MW are operated on the same site by the same 
operator they must be treated as a single appliance.  We therefore consider that this is a single installation  
undertaking an activity within section1.1 A(1) of schedule 1 EPR - burning any fuel in an appliance with a 
rated thermal input of 50 or more MW. The installation provides a total aggregated thermal input of 191 
MWth. Additionally there are four gas powered boilers in London North that only provide heating and hot 
water to the building. These are all less than 1MWth and are therefore no covered by this Permit. They are 
not required to provide back-up power to the data centre. 
The site is located in close proximity to the River Thames which has been designated as a Marine Nature 
Reserve. There are no source protection zones or groundwater protection zones in the vicinity of the site.  
There will be no process effluent discharge from the installation. Uncontam inated water from roof and hard 
standing run off will drain via a below ground surface water drainage system.  
The installation will operate an Environment Management System in line with the requirements of ISO 
14001.  
There is one Special Area of Conservation (SAC), one Special protection Area (SPA) within 10km of the 
installation and 17 local wildlife sites (LWS) located within 2km of the installation.  
 
 
 
Permit number 
EPR/BP3530YR 2 