 
                       Page 7 of 28 
Although we do not necessarily agree with the consultant’s numerical values, we agree 
that the contributions from the facility during the testing scenarios are not likely to lead to 
an exceedance of the EALs at any location of exposure for human health. 
 
We do note that the proximity of the new residential apartments, which will be as close 
as 60m from the data centre, will introduce additional uncertainty to the modelling due to 
the potentially more turbulent flow that will be experienced and the fact that some of the 
receptors will be in the cavity region of the data centre site building. 
 
Because of this, we have included improvement condition, (IC2) requiring the operator to 
verify the predicted short-term concentrations of nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide. We 
have included nitrogen monoxide (NO) in this improvement concentration as the 
operator did not include it in their monitoring. We carried out check modelling of NO in 
our assessment which indicated that the PCs for long-term and short-term NO would be 
insignificant for the testing and maintenance scenarios 1-3. For emergency scenario 4, 
our checks indicated that the long-term NO PCs would not be insignificant, but the PECs 
were less than the EAL. Exceedance of the short-term NO EAL would be possible at the 
closest sensitive human health receptors under scenario 4. 
 
 
Scenario 4 (Emergency operation). 
(a) NO2 hourly mean. 
Should the back-up generators be required to operate simultaneously in the event of 
National Grid outage, the largest PC in the 99.79th percentile NO2 hourly mean is 
predicted to be 1,564.3μg/m3 at receptors HR14_A to HR14_G on the façade of the new 
residential building B (west). These levels would be significantly greater than the EAL. 
The operator carried out statistical analysis using hypergeometric distribution to 
determine the potential likelihood of these exceedances occurring. 
The original air quality assessment modelled 68 hours of emergency operation and 
recorded the highest probability of an exceedance of the EAL was 4.9% at receptor H7 
(22 Hales Park Close) which indicated the risk of exceedance was ‘unlikely’ as it fell 
below the criterion of 5% for unlikely effects. When the modelling was repeated with the 
proposed new residential receptors in place, 68 hours of emergency operation was now 
predicted to ‘likely’ result in exceedances of the EAL at many of the new receptors – with 
a 53% probability of exceeding the EAL at receptor HR18_C on the façade of the new 
residential building D. 
With these new receptors present, the period of emergency operation would be required 
to not exceed 51 hours in order to limit the probability of an EAL exceedance to less than 
5% (exceedance considered ‘unlikely’). Under that emergency operation scenario, the 
highest probability of an EAL exceedance was predicted to be at receptor HR17_G on 
the façade of the new residential building C (west). 