BAT for FCDM Operation. 
The Operator has also operated the DRUPS as part of a scheme known as Frequency Control by Demand 
Management (FCDM). FCDM is similar to several schemes available to data centre operators which 
necessitates non-emergency operation of the DRUPS. There are two main bodies responsible for this, a 
Distribution Network Operator (DNO) or an independent third party aggregator. Normally, the National Grid 
will make a request to an aggregator to request a site / sites switches from grid supply to onsite generation 
during periods of high demand where the grid cannot meet current requirements. FCDM requires only the 
DRUPS units to be operated to support the site, to reduce demand on the national grid when the frequency 
of electricity supply dips significantly. Without FCDM intervention there could be a power loss to the 
surrounding area. The frequency is unlikely to be more than 12 times a year for up to 30 minutes at a time. In 
practice it is likely that this will replace the monthly test, therefore there is negligible impact on the total hours 
of operation in a year and therefore on environmental impacts e.g. air quality.   
Although the installation is excluded from the Specified Generator regulations (as required by Schedule 25 B 
of Statutory Instrument 2018 No. 110 made 29 January 2018), due to it having over 50 MWth combustion 
activities, we consider that the requirements of the regulations are BAT for the installation.  The Specified 
Generator Guidance explains how to comply with the provisions of the Specified Generator Regulations. It 
explains the scope and definitions and details how the regulations apply to different types of generators. 
 
Firm Frequency Response for Data Centres: Data Centres require very stable frequency of electricity 
supply to maintain the integrity of the IT functions they support. Data Centre operators will periodically 
proactively operate their onsite emergency backup generation when the transmission system frequency is 
unstable to prevent damage or disruption to data processing functions. The Environment Agency considers 
such operation to constitute an onsite emergency and are thus excluded when this activity is not part of a 
formal agreement or contract. Such periods of operation will be kept to a minimum.  However, Backup 
Generator means a generator that is operated for the sole purpose of providing power at a site during an 
onsite emergency from the 1 January 2019. Balancing Services, and Demand Side Response operations, 
whether procured or not, such as Triad Avoidance or Fast Frequency Response are not on site emergencies 
and a generator that provides these services is not excluded.
 Balancing service means any services 
procured by the transmission system operator in order to balance demand and supply, and to ensure the 
security and quality of electricity supply across the national transmission system for Great Britain. For 
example, generators can be generating for their own use, sometimes known as Demand Side Response, or 
for export. Services include but are not limited to: Enhanced Frequency Response, Enhanced Reactive 
Power Service, Fast Reserve, Firm Frequency Response and Short Term Operating Reserve.  
A response to a Schedule 5 request for information received on 18/01/2019 confirmed that the Operator was 
under contract to provide generation under FCDM and as such under the Specified Generator Regulations 
the generators would be considered to be Tranche A generators. As explained above we consider that the 
requirements of the regulations are BAT even for plant excluded due to their size consequently the 
generators are required to meet the standard ELV for nitrogen oxides = 190 mg/Nm3 at a temperature of 
273.15 K, a pressure of 101.3 kPa and after correction for the water vapour content of the waste gases to 
dry gas and at a standardised O2 of 15%. This is the equivalent of 500 mg/Nm3 at 5% O2. This Standard 
ELV is applicable to all generator technologies and fuels is tighter than that required by the MCPD and will 
minimise emissions due to the need for SCR abatement. At the time of determination of this application the 
generators have no form of NOx abatement and are not capable of meeting these emission limits. An 
improvement condition, IC 2, is included in the permit which requires the Operator to demonstrate to the 
Environment Agency that it has modified the plant and equipment at the site in order to meet the above ELV  
before it can demonstrate BAT for FCDM operation. 
Protection of Groundwater 
 
The site is covered in hardstanding. Diesel tanks are double skinned and part of a preventative maintenance 
programme. Leak detection alarms are installed within the tanks. Each set of generators are housed within 
bunded containers. Fuel lines to generators are enclosed.  
 
Storm drains in the generator compound run into the oil interceptors. The interceptors are cleaned on an annual 
basis. 
 
Each set of generators are housed within bunded containers sufficient to contain complete loss of all fluids 
held within the generator / engine. Spill prevention kits are located in the plant areas.  
 
EPR/BP3530YR/A001 
Date issued: 25/6/2019 
 5 