 
                       Page 11 of 28 
Therefore, the impact from the generators on the SO2 annual mean EAL at the sensitive 
receptors was assessed as insignificant. 
(d) Nutrient nitrogen deposition. 
With regard to nutrient nitrogen, the PCs at the ecological receptors were predicted to be 
< 1% and the PEC > 70% of the relevant critical loads. However, in all cases the 
background already exceeds the relevant critical load used in the assessment. 
(e) Acid deposition. 
For acid deposition, the PC for each ecological receptor was less than the critical load 
and no exceedances of the critical load function were recorded using the APIS critical 
load function tool. As such, the impacts of acid deposition were assessed as not 
significant. 
For each ecological receptor, the operator included in the modelling report, a screenshot 
from the APIS website of the acid critical load function.  
 
Scenario 4 (Emergency operation). 
(a) NOx daily mean. 
The modelling predicted that the largest PC would be 440.6μg/m3 at receptor ER2 
(Maylands Wood Ancient Woodland, Local Wildlife Site) which is 588% of the critical 
load of 75μg/m3. The largest PEC predicted was 481.9μg/m3 also at ER2 which is 642% 
of the critical load. 
Exceedances of the critical loads are predicted at all but one receptor assessed - ER1 
(Chilterns Beechwood Special Area of Conservation). This receptor, ER1, is the only 
European statutory site within the screening distance. It is located approximately 8km 
from the proposed Amazon data centre and, even should emergency operation of the 
generators last for the 68 hours modelled, critical loads at that site will not be exceeded. 
However, exceedances of the critical loads would be predicted at all the non-statutory 
conservation sites closer to the data centre. However, as with the assessment of impacts 
on human health from emergency operating scenario, it is unlikely that any significant 
period of such operation will be required due to the built-in resilience on site for electrical 
supply and the reliability of the National Grid. 