 
                       Page 17 of 28 
There are two aqueous discharges from site – one to surface water and one to foul 
sewer. Both of these have an oil interceptor prior to discharge. It is the policy of the 
operator that the area around the bulk fuel storage tank should drain to the foul sewer as 
it is deemed the most vulnerable to leaks or spillages die to the volume of the tank and 
the routine filling operations. The area around the back-up generators discharges to 
surface water. 
 
Improvement Conditions. 
The following improvement conditions (ICs) have been included in the permit: 
 
IC1 which requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining measures to be taken in the event of a 
National Grid failure. This improvement condition is included in all data centre permits. 
 
IC2 which requires the operator to submit for approval a report verifying the predicted 
short-term concentrations of nitrogen oxides (including nitrogen monoxide) and sulphur 
dioxide at the boundary of the site. The output of the verification exercise should be used 
to inform or revise the air quality management plan if necessary.  
 
We have included this improvement condition because of the proximity of the proposed 
new apartments, which will be the closest human health receptors, introduces additional 
uncertainties in the modelling due to the potential impact of more turbulent flow. It is 
important, because of their location, that the operator verifies the predicted emissions 
from their air dispersion modelling to ensure that the data which were used determine 
potential impact on these receptors are correct. 
 
IC3 which requires the operator to submit for approval a review of options to reduce 
predicted short term emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide during the 
maintenance, testing and emergency operation of the stand-by generators. Again, due to 
the proximity of the new receptors and the predicted concentrations of nitrogen oxides 
released during these scenarios, we must require the operator to investigate the 
potential for reduction of these emissions. 
 
IC4 which requires the operator to submit for approval a monitoring plan that will outline 
their proposal for implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements outlined in 
Table S3.1. This is a standard improvement condition for all data centre permits which 
include a medium combustion plant and, for which, a monitoring proposal that meets the 
requirements of Table S3.1 has not been submitted.  
 
Pre-operational conditions. 
PO1: which requires the operator to submit a commissioning plan with timescales to the 
Environment Agency for assessment and approval. 
  