 
                       Page 22 of 28 
We have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 4 months of the issue 
date of the permit or the date when each new medium combustion plant is first put into 
operation, whichever is later. 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the standards 
specified in the Operating Techniques including the reporting of emissions to air agreed 
after completion of Improvement Condition, IC4. 
We have specified reporting to ensure the operator notifies us of any operation of the 
stand-by generators in emergency mode in response to national grid power outage. 
We made these decisions in accordance with Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator competence and 
how to develop a management system for environmental permits. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able to 
comply with the permit conditions. 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting economic 
growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the guidance issued 
under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the regulatory 
outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, these regulatory 
outcomes include an explicit reference to development or growth. The growth duty 
establishes economic growth as a factor that all specified regulators should have regard 
to, alongside the delivery of the protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to be set 
for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The guidance is clear at 
paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-compliance and its purpose is 
not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are reasonable 
and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. This also promotes 
growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards applied to the operator are 