 
Permit number                               
EPR/BP3546QP 13 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e., loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for technical assessment and written approval. 
IC2 The operator shall submit a one-off written report to the Environment 
Agency for technical assessment and written approval verifying the 
predicted short-term concentrations of nitrogen oxides and sulphur 
dioxide at the boundary of the site following construction of the 
apartments on Maylands Avenue. The report shall include but is not 
limited to: 
• Monitoring of ambient air quality at the boundary of the site during 
the all the testing scenarios using monitoring methods agreed in 
advance with the Environment Agency. 
• A comparison of modelled against monitored concentrations of 
nitrogen dioxide, nitrogen monoxide and sulphur dioxide.  
• A demonstration that appropriate monitoring location(s) were 
selected at the boundary of the site, taking into account the 
modelled predictions and the weather conditions prevalent at the 
time of the monitoring  
• Evidence to demonstrate that the monitoring team holds 
appropriate qualifications.  
The output of the verification exercise should be used to inform / revise 
the air quality management plan if necessary. 
01/01/2025 
IC3 The operator shall submit a plan to reduce the predicted short term impact 
from emissions of nitrogen oxides (nitrogen dioxide and nitrogen 
monoxide) and sulphur dioxide during the maintenance, testing and 
emergency operations of the standby generators. This shall include but is 
not limited to:  
• Considerations of the conclusions of the validation exercise 
specified in improvement condition IC2 to inform, if required, a 
feasibility study including cost benefit analysis for upgrades or 
other changes to infrastructure or operational regimes on site that 
could reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide 
and increase dispersion. 
• Use of the above information to propose appropriate changes, if 
required, including but not limited to an assessment of the 
following options: changes to stack configuration to enhance 
dispersion (e.g., increased stack heights); amending the testing 
schedule to reduce the daily emissions from the testing 
operations; upgrading the standby engines to reduce emissions 
or installing newer ones with lower emissions of NOx; installing 
NOx abatement. If changes in the height of the stacks are 
demonstrated to be effective but are not deemed feasible due to 
local planning restrictions, the Operator shall provide evidence of 
the engagement carried out with the Local Authority planning 
department, in support of this conclusion, and propose other 
emission reduction options. 
• The Operator shall submit, if required, an updated air dispersion 
modelling study demonstrating how the proposed option(s), 
selected among those assessed, result in reduced levels of 
nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide at the sensitive human health 
receptors in proximity of the installation. 
• Proposal, if required, of the shortest practical timescale for the 
implementation of the selected improvements. 
01/07/2025 