 
                       Page 8 of 28 
An emergency operation scenario of more than 51 hours is considered very unlikely due 
to the electrical design and built-in resilience measures at the site and the known 
reliability of the National Grid. The operator noted that the National Grid’s National 
Electricity Transmission System Performance Report 2021-21 reported the longest loss 
of supply lasted 454 minutes (7.5 hours in Tinsley Park, Sheffield over 190km north of 
the Amazon Hemel Hempstead site). This supports the operator’s contention that a 
continuous complete electrical grid failure of more than 51 hours is highly unlikely. 
The operator has therefore proposed that, with the inclusion of the new residential 
developments in the modelling, an exceedance of the NO2 hourly mean would be ‘likely’ 
under their modelled 68 hours emergency operation. However, by reducing any 
emergency operation to a maximum of 51 hours, an exceedance would be ‘unlikely’.  
(b) USEPA AEGLs. 
The operator also used the air dispersion modelling to assess impact of the emergency 
operation (scenario 4) against the United States Environmental Protection Agency 
(USEPA) Acute Exposure Guideline Levels for Hazardous Substances (AEGLs). 
Exceedances of the lower AEGL1 limit were predicted at a number of the modelled 
receptors at the higher storeys of the proposed new residential buildings. 
There were twelve exceedances predicted, all at the top two storeys of the new 
buildings, for the AEGL1 10-minute and 30-minute limits. 
There were eleven exceedances predicted, again all at the top storeys of the buildings, 
against the 1-hour limit for AEGL1. 
The AEGL guidance states that the effects of exposure to emissions at AEGL1 limits are 
“not disabling and are transient and reversible upon cessation of exposure”. 
The predicted concentrations at all receptors were below the AEGL2 and AEGL3 limits. 
Because the limits AEGL2 and AEGL3 were not predicted to be exceeded and the 
unlikely scenario of an extended National Grid outage requiring prolonged operation of 
the back-up generators, the emergency scenario is deemed acceptable for compliance 
against AEGL limits. 
(c) SO2 15-minute mean. 
The modelling predicted that the largest PC of SO2 99.9th percentile 15-minute mean 
was 117.8μg/m3 at receptor HR17_G (on the façade of the new residential building C, 
south) which is 34% of the EAL of 350μg/m3. The largest PEC was 125.7μg/m3 also at 
HR17_G, which is 36% of the EAL. 
Our audit indicated that the EAL used of 350μg/m3 was incorrect and the operator should 
have used an EAL of 266μg/m3. Using the correct EAL, the PC at the predicted most 
impacted receptor would be 44% with PEC being 47% of the EAL. 