 
                       Page 24 of 28 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, and 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered these in 
the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: Thames Water 
Brief summary of issues raised: From the information provided, there were no 
discharges from the installation to land/groundwater or surface water that caused any 
concern to the consultee at this time. 
Summary of actions taken: No further action required. 
 
Response received from: United Kingdom Health Security Agency (UKHSA) 
Brief summary of issues raised: Based on the information contained in the application 
supplied to the consultee, UKHSA had no significant concerns regarding the risk to the 
health of the local population from the installation. That response assumed that the 
permit holder would take all appropriate measures to prevent or control pollution, in 
accordance with the relevant sector guidance and industry best practice. 
Summary of actions taken: No further action required. 
 
Response received from: Dacorum Borough Council (response 1) 
Brief summary of issues raised: In relation to land contamination considerations, the 
consultee confirmed there was no relevant information they were aware of that the 
Environment Agency had not be made aware of via the application. The consultee noted 
groundwater sampling and analysis had not been required as part of the submissions to 
discharge the land contamination conditions placed on the permission 4/01922/19/MFA, 
which is the permission referenced within the application and the Site Condition Report. 
Summary of actions taken: No further action required. The Site Condition Report was 
assessed during the permit determination process.  
 
Response received from: Dacorum Borough Council (response 2) 
Brief summary of issues raised: The consultee noted that the Council had granted 
planning permission for the use of the site as a data centre and had no objections in 
principle to the granting of an Environmental Permit. 