 
                       Page 21 of 28 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by the 
National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit values in line 
with technical guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will aid the delivery of 
national air quality targets. We do not consider that we need to include any additional 
conditions in this permit. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
The sulphur content of gas oil (or equivalent fuel agreed with the Environment Agency) 
has been limited to 0.001% (w/w) max. 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include pre-
operational conditions. 
Please see Key Issues Section. 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include an 
improvement programme. 
See Key Issues Section for further details. 
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed in the 
permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen 
from emission points, A1 to A33 (new medium combustion plant), with a minimum 
frequency of once every 1500 hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes 
first). This monitoring has been included in the permit in order to comply with the 
requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive. 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and carbon 
monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web guide 
‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 16 
February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 