 
                       Page 30 of 32 
(b) An improvement condition (IC8) has been included in the permit requiring the operator to 
review options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide emissions and their potential for 
impact on human health (and ecological) receptors. This review will include stack heights – 
particularly at data centres Campus and HH4 (phase 1) which have been demonstrated by air 
dispersion modelling to have the highest potential for environmental impact. 
(c) An improvement condition (IC1) has been included in the permit requiring the operator to 
produce an Air Quality Management Plan in conjunction with the Local Authority. The operator 
agreed that this improvement condition should include a reference to the Air Quality Management 
Plan considering outages of less than 18 hours. 
 
Response received from: Public Health England – Response 2 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
The consultee noted that reducing public exposures to non-threshold pollutants (such as 
particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide) below air quality standards has potential public health 
benefits. They supported approaches which minimise or mitigate public exposure to non-
threshold air pollutants and address inequalities (in exposure) and encourage their consideration 
during site design, operational management, and regulation.  
They noted they had reviewed the additional information supplied and consider that the 
Environment Agency may wish to seek additional reassurance from the applicant with respect to 
potential impacts on public health.  
(a) The consultee noted that the applicant had supplied additional information with respect to 
comparison between modelled (100%ile) and monitored data at a sensitive receptor over several 
months which provided some reassurance regarding the testing and maintenance scenario 
although no additional modelling had been supplied for operating conditions which were more 
representative. They noted that the Environment Agency may wish to consider if it was 
reasonable to request the applicant to conduct additional modelling for maintenance/testing 
scenarios. 
The consultee also noted that, in respect to the emergency scenario, the applicant had supplied 
the outputs of additional modelling for shorter, more realistic periods of outage. However, the 
consultee believed the applicant’s responses did not fully address their previous comments with 
respect to evaluating the risk assessment. They noted that the Environment Agency may wish to 
recommend that the applicant analyses the outputs of the modelling to understand the conditions 
that give rise to the worst case conditions and that any monitoring and mitigation is designed for 
these conditions. 
(b) The consultee noted that the applicant’s response on identifying appropriate checks and 
controls to prevent adverse impacts on public health (with control of emissions preferable to 
strategies reliant on public warning and informing) did not fully address their comments with 
respect to providing that reassurance. They suggested that concentrations of NO2 should be 
considered alongside generator operation duration for an assessment of potential exposure of the 
public at off-site locations. They suggested that the Environment Agency may wish to consider 
whether the applicant should develop and communicate messaging or alerts for testing and 
outages and/or should conduct monitoring of NO2 emissions, especially during the annual testing 
for each data centre to further refine exposure assessment modelling. 
(c) The consultee noted that, in relation to potentially unacceptable acute exposure occurring both 
during routine testing/maintenance or in a shorter period than 18 hours of power outage, the 
operator had agreed that an improvement condition relating to creation of an Air Quality 
Management Plan would include outage scenarios less than 18 hours. They also noted that the 
operator supplied the outputs of additional modelling for more realistic outage periods of 1-hour 