 
                       Page 6 of 32 
their optimal design capacity. Operating diesel generator sets at low loads for extended 
periods of time can potentially impact uptime and engine life. 
 
- The datacentres operate with various levels of redundancy to ensure that, in the event of 
failure of a generator at a datacentre, the correct number of remaining generators will in 
an emergency event provide the required load. To achieve the stated levels of 
redundancy with larger generators, the overall capacity of the generators would be higher 
and additionally the level of reliability would be reduced if a smaller number of larger 
generators were in place. 
 
- As part of the annual maintenance programme, testing of the generators throughout the 
year for short periods of time is required. To minimise the mass emission rate to air of 
combustion emissions and potential adverse impacts on air quality, NTT tests a small 
number of generators together in a phased manner. The ability for a phased approach to 
maintenance and testing would be reduced if a smaller number of larger generators were 
in place, with potentially a greater mass emission rate of combustion pollutants to air at 
any one time from larger generators during testing and maintenance. 
 
Based on this assessment of providing only the required amount of electrical output at any time in 
the most flexible of circumstances, we accept that the use of a large number of smaller capacity 
generators is BAT in these circumstances. 
 
Managing emissions.  
The operator has taken further measures to minimise emissions from the diesel generators both 
in emergency and test/maintenance operation. 
 
The operator has confirmed that all generators in use in the four datacentres (including HH4 
phase 1) are either compliant with the 2g TA-Luft standard or equivalent EPA Tier II standard to 
deliver NOx releases of no greater than 2,000 mg/m3. 
 
Retrofitting abatement techniques such as selective catalytic reduction (SCR) onto existing power 
generation technologies would not normally be expected for standby plant to mitigate the 
emission of standby/emergency operation. 
 
Air Quality. 
 
Applicant’s assessment of potential impact on air quality: 
The applicant submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment which considered the potential 
impacts of NOx, nitrogen deposition and acid deposition on relevant sensitive human health and 
ecological receptors within the defined screening distances. 
 
They considered 48 human health receptors including residential properties (both existing and 
proposed), cafes, hotels, day care centres, and allotments.  
 
They considered the following protected European site: 
- Chilterns Beechwoods (Special Area of Conservation). 
and the following local sites: 
- 1 Local Nature Reserves 
o Howe Grove Wood. 