 
Permit Number            
EPR/BP3800PZ            15 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
The review shall also consider: 
- how any oil contaminated surface water at the permitted Campus site is 
prevented from discharge off-site via the unpermitted SW2 discharge 
location; 
- how any oil contaminated surface water at the Centro site is prevented 
from exiting site onto the adjacent area of unsurfaced land.  
The review shall also consider whether additional spill protection 
equipment, revised procedures or additional training are required. 
A written report of the review shall be submitted to the Environment Agency 
for written approval which details: 
 The review’s findings and recommendations; 
 Proposals with timescales for the implementation of any recommended 
improvements. 
The Operator shall implement any agreed improvements to the tertiary 
containment system within the timescales approved by the Environment 
Agency. 
IC3 The operator shall carry out an investigation into the possibility of installing 
an alarmed interceptor or the provision of alternative infrastructure to 
minimise the risk of discharge of diesel to the environment at the Centro 
data centre site. 
A written report of the review shall be submitted to the Environment Agency 
for written approval which details: 
- The review’s findings and recommendations; 
- Proposals with timescales for the implementation of any recommended 
improvements. 
The Operator shall implement any agreed recommendations within the 
timescales approved by the Environment Agency. 
31/03/2022 
IC4 The operator shall submit to the Environment Agency for written approval: 
- written procedures for the maintenance, inspection and testing of drains 
and interceptors present on all four data centre sites; 
- timescales for the implementation of these maintenance, inspection and 
testing procedures. 
The operator shall implement the agreed procedures within the timescales 
approved by the Environment Agency.  
31/03/2022 
IC5 The operator shall submit to the Environment Agency for written approval: 
- written procedures and timescales for the inspection of below ground 
storm water and rainwater attenuation tanks at Campus and HH4 
(phase 1) data centre sites. 
The operator shall demonstrate that these inspections are carried out by 
suitably qualified and experienced third party companies to ensure the 
integrity of the tanks or demonstrate that alternative inspection systems 
deliver an equivalent level of protection to these tanks.  
The operator shall implement the agreed procedures within the timescales 
approved by the Environment Agency. 
31/01/2022 
IC6 The operator shall submit to the Environment Agency for written approval a 
site investigation programme to obtain baseline soil and groundwater data 
for the Campus, Centro and Maylands data centre sites. 
The programme shall include: 
- the location and nature of all sampling locations; 
- the analytical parameters for which testing will be carried out; 
- the commencement of the sampling and testing; 
- the timescales for any future sampling and testing. 
30/04/2022 