 
                       Page 29 of 32 
Summary of actions taken: 
The consultee was informed: 
(a) Of the reporting requirements within the permit requiring the operator to notify the 
Environment Agency of the use of the generators; 
(b) Of the use of compliance visits and reporting of incidents to initiate corrective actions relating 
to incidents and potential permit variations; 
(c) Of the reasoning to include all four NTT data centres within one permit partly because of the 
overlap in receptors (both human health and ecological) for the four sites and the use of 
background air concentration values in air modelling which take into account other local 
contributors of pollutants. 
The consultee noted they had nothing further to add and had no overriding concerns. 
 
Response received from: Public Health England. 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
The consultee noted that, although the air dispersion modelling indicated the risk of exceeding 
the 1-hour mean NO2 at receptor locations for the testing/maintenance scenario was <1% and 
therefore ‘highly unlikely’, the maximum PEC (Predicted Environmental Concentration) exceeded 
401ug/m3 (the ‘high’ pollution band of DEFRA’s Daily Air Quality Index (DAQI) with approximately 
40% exceeding 601ug/m3 (the ‘very high pollution band of the DAQI). There was a predicted 
exceedance of 960ug/m3 (the US Acute Exposure Guideline Level 1, AEGL-1) at six receptor 
locations. 
The consultee noted that for the 500-hour emergency outage scenario, the modelling indicated 
there was the potential for more than 18 exceedances of the 1-hour mean NO2 AQAL of 
200ug/m3 at a number of receptors. They further noted that the maximum PEC was predicted to 
be 2778ug/m3 for residential receptors. Whilst they accepted it was reassuring that historically the 
operator had had no emergency outages, they commented that in an emergency situation there 
could be a potential acute health impact for vulnerable receptors. 
They recommended that: 
(a) The applicant should refine the risk assessment to identify the operational and meteorological 
population factors that could potentially lead to unacceptable levels of exposure to the nearby 
population, both during routine testing and maintenance, and in an emergency outage; 
(b) The applicant should identify appropriate checks and controls to prevent adverse impacts on 
public health. They proposed that control of emissions was preferable to strategies reliant on 
public warning and informing. They also noted that the stack heights for a number of the 
generators did not currently conform to BAT; 
(c) The Environment Agency should consider whether appropriate mitigation measures are in 
place, both during routine maintenance and testing, and should a failure of the mains electricity 
supply occur, noting that currently NTT only proposed to develop an Air Quality Emergency 
Action Plan (AQEAP) for a prolonged outage situation (>18 hours) but that potentially 
unacceptable acute exposure could occur before this timeframe is reached. 
Summary of actions taken: 
(a) The operator clarified that they had considered the recommended 5 years (43,800 hours) of 
hourly meteorological data rather than the minimum of 3 years as outlined with our guidance on 
air dispersion modelling. This extended period would ensure that a full range of meteorological 
and operational conditions would have been included and therefore adequately assessed. 