 
                       Page 15 of 32 
The belly tanks at Maylands (Suite 1 generators only) and Centro datacentres are filled directly 
from bulk storage diesel tanks located on these sites. For the Maylands datacentre (with the 
exception of Suite 1 generators) and Campus datacentre, the belly tanks are filled directly from 
refuelling vehicles (the fuel being delivered by a NTT appointed fuel supplier). Fuel is delivered 
directly to the belly tanks via fill points which are located on the generator container units. These 
are positioned in lockable cabinets which are designed with drip trays. 
The sites use a generator tank fuel monitoring system which will alarm, via the datacentre 
Building Management System (BMS) to the on-site control room, in the event of a diesel tank 
volume decrease when the generators are not operating. 
 
Campus Site: 
Diesel fuel is stored only in bunded “belly” tanks. A total of 881,000 litres of diesel can be stored 
on this site at any one time. There are no diesel bulk storage tanks located on this site. 
Maylands: 
Diesel fuel is stored in the “belly” tanks. A total of 193,360 litres of diesel can be stored on site in 
these “belly” tanks. There are also two above ground diesel bulk storage tanks at this site which 
serve datacentre suite 1. Each of these tanks is capable of holding 45,000 litres of fuel. 
The total capacity for diesel storage on this site is 283,360 litres. 
Centro: 
Diesel fuel is stored in the “belly” tanks. A total of 3,366 litres of diesel can be stored on site in 
these “belly” tanks. There is also one above ground diesel bulk storage tank with a capacity of 
75,000 litres. 
The total capacity for diesel storage on this site is 78,366 litres. 
HH4 (Phase 1): 
Diesel fuel is stored in the “belly” tanks. A total of 600,000 litres of diesel can be stored on site in 
these “belly” tanks for the 15 generators comprising HH4 phase 1. There are no diesel bulk 
storage tanks located on this site. 
 
Containment Protection – “Belly” Tanks: 
The “belly” tanks have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of containment: 
Campus & HH4 (Phase 1) Datacentres: 
o A “belly” tank fuel monitoring system which will alarm, via the datacentre Building 
Management System (BMS) to the on-site control room, in the event of a diesel tank 
volume decrease when the generators are not operating. 
o Fill points are located in a lockable cabinet provided with a drip tray designed to capture 
any minor spillages of oil from the fill point during delivery, which is integral to the 
generator container unit. 
o The tank fill point cabinets remain locked when not in use; 
o Tank level gauge; 
o High and low level alarms connected to the BMS and the generator container units; 