 
                       Page 31 of 32 
and 36-hours. They also noted that the requirement on the operator to produce the Air Quality 
Management Plan which must consider the predicted exposure of individual receptors, 
meteorological conditions, contingency for how the response to loss of power will be carried out 
and specific timescale for response measures substantively addressed their recommendation 
with respect to the emergency scenario. 
They noted the importance of not exceeding EH40 limits or Acute Exposure Guideline Levels 
(AEGLs).  
They recommended that the Environment Agency satisfied itself that the applicant suitably 
assesses, and mitigates the potential health consequences of short term exposure to high levels 
of nitrogen dioxide even for periods of less than 18 hours. 
Summary of actions taken: 
(a) The applicant analysed further the outcomes of the air dispersion modelling to investigate the 
meteorological conditions that would lead to the highest impact at sensitive receptors. They 
assessed the meteorological conditions during maximum potential 1-hour NO2 means for both the 
maintenance/testing and outage scenarios. They considered temperature, wind speed, wind 
direction, cloud cover and relative humidity. They concluded that the main driver to impacting on 
air quality was wind speed with the highest impacts generally occurring during calm conditions 
(i.e., when wind speeds were below the limit of detection) or during conditions of low wind speed 
(where this wind speed was <2 m/s). 
The applicant proposed that the Air Emissions Risk Assessment demonstrated that the probability 
of the routine testing and maintenance hours across a year coinciding with meteorological 
conditions that would lead to an exceedance of the nitrogen dioxide limit values are less than 1% 
and therefore highly unlikely. As such, the applicant proposed that no specific measures in 
relation to the routine testing and maintenance scenarios is considered to be required, especially 
given the precautionary assumptions already embedded in the assessment, e.g. assuming 
standby generators operate at full load for all testing and simultaneous testing across the 4 data 
centres which is not the case. 
In addition, the applicant has revised the configuration of the HH4 data centre such that we have 
permitted only HH4 phase 1 which includes 15 generators instead of the 32 generators included 
in the original HH4 plan. This means that the testing/maintenance operations at HH4 will occur for 
only 345 hours/year rather than the 736 hours/year in the original application. This will further 
reduce the potential impact from testing/maintenance operations across the permitted sites. 
The improvement condition (IC8) which has been included in the permit requiring the operator to 
review options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide emissions and their potential for 
impact on human health (and ecological) receptors, includes a requirement on the operator to 
take into account those weather conditions demonstrated by modelling to have the greatest 
potential for environmental impact in order to reduce emissions, improve dispersion and reduce 
potential environmental impact. 
(b) The applicant demonstrated that modelled and predicted NO2 levels at a location outside of 
the four data centre sites, at which an Environment Agency monitoring device had been located, 
had been significantly higher than those levels actually monitored – predictions of 800 µg/m3 NO2 
compared with maximum levels of 120 µg/m3 NO2 measured. We believe that this indicates the 
modelled NO2 emissions are very much a worst case scenario. 
The reduction in the testing/maintenance hours in the permitted HH4 phase 1 also will result in a 
reduction in the potential environmental impact from NO2 releases during testing/maintenance.  
As the Environment Agency monitoring of NO2 has been carried out at Hemel Hempstead and the 
data is being correlated with operation at the three on-line data centres (Campus, Centro and 
Maylands), we do not believe further NO2 monitoring is required by the operator at this stage. 