 
                       Page 26 of 32 
(new medium combustion plant), with a minimum frequency of once every 1500 hours of 
operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been included in the 
permit in order to comply with the requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive, which 
specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of 
the limited operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides from the same emission points 
(new medium combustion plant), with the same frequency specified for the monitoring of carbon 
monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied our regulatory discretion, as 
we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide 
monitoring, is proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the installation, and 
the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and carbon monoxide, we consider this 
monitoring can be carried out in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs 
and specified generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 4 months of the issue date of 
the permit or the date when each new medium combustion plant is first put into operation, 
whichever is later. 
We have linked this monitoring to completion of improvement condition 9 (IC9). 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the standards specified 
in the Operating Techniques including the reporting of emissions to air agreed after completion of 
improvement condition 9 (IC9). 
We have specified reporting to ensure the operator notifies us of any operation of the stand-by 
generators in emergency mode in response to national grid power outage. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the management 
system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator competence and how to 
develop a management system for environmental permits. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able to comply with 
the permit conditions. 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting economic growth set 
out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the guidance issued under section 110 of 
that Act in deciding whether to grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the regulatory outcomes for 
which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, these regulatory outcomes include an 
explicit reference to development or growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a 
factor that all specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the protections 
set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to be set for this 
operation in the body of the decision document above. The guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 