 
                       Page 18 of 32 
municipal sewer. NTT must update their spill response procedures and provide training to 
designated NTT staff. 
As there appears to be a residual risk that there is not suitable tertiary containment on all the sites 
and/or additional measures and training must be implemented, we have included an improvement 
programme condition (IC2) requiring NTT review their tertiary containment across the four sites in 
line with relevant industry standards and implement any improvement work proposed. 
 
Aqueous Releases from Sites. 
Each datacentre has separate foul and surface water drainage systems. The drainage to foul 
sewer consists of sanitary foul water (sinks, toilets, cleaning water, etc.). The operation of the 
datacentres does not result in the generation of trade effluent. 
There are no discharges to foul sewer within the plant areas on each datacentre site where the 
generators and diesel storage are located. All run-off from these areas drains to the site specific 
surface water drainage systems prior to off-site discharge into the municipal surface water 
drainage system. 
The surface water drainage system at each of the datacentres will accept surface water runoff 
from the areas where the generator container units and associated diesel storage are located, 
along with water from the building roof area and other hard surfaced areas of the site. 
There are oil/water interceptors at the Campus, Maylands and HH4 sites. The interceptors at 
Campus and Maylands sites are not alarmed to indicate the presence of oil. Only the interceptor 
at the newer HH4 site will alarm if oil is present. All interceptors will be emptied, cleaned and 
maintained at least annually by an appointed specialist contractor. There is currently no oil 
interceptor at the Centro site. 
Campus: 
Water run-off from the permitted area (standby generators and diesel storage areas) drains to the 
on-site surface water drainage system via an oil interceptor prior to off-site discharge into the 
municipal surface water drainage system operated by Thames Water Limited. Surface water 
runoff discharges via one discharge point (Campus CP-SW1) off site into the municipal drainage 
system. The location of discharge point Campus CP-SW1 is presented on its site plan in 
Schedule 7 (drawing 002A in the permit application documentation). 
There are six rainwater harvesting tanks (total 500m3 capacity) beneath the Plant Area where the 
generators are located, which collect surface water runoff from the site for use to replace 
evaporative losses from the on-site cooling systems. There is also an attenuation tank beneath 
the Plant Area where the generators are located. This provides 265m3 capacity to attenuate the 
flow of surface water to the site’s surface water drainage system and off-site flow into the 
municipal drainage system. 
There are three interceptors on the Campus site. The surface water runoff from the Plant Area is 
directed via an interceptor (Klargester class 1 by-pass oil separator) located in the south of the 
site prior to discharge off site into the municipal surface water drainage system. 
There is a second off-site aqueous discharge point on the Campus site, unpermitted, – SW2 
which drains surface run-off from unpermitted areas such as the carpark and contractors’ 
compounds. This discharge point does not drain surface water from the permitted installation at 
Campus – the generators and diesel storage. The scope of IC2 on tertiary containment includes 
demonstration that robust tertiary containment (or other protection systems) are in place to 
prevent any oil-contaminated surface water from the permitted Campus installation, being 
discharged via the unpermitted SW2 release point. 
 