 
Permit Number            
EPR/BP3800PZ            3 
The data centre generators will only operate under a limited scheduled programme of routine testing and 
maintenance or in an emergency site power outage scenario. Electrical power is normally provided to the data 
centres from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in this electrical supply, the operator will utilise 
the generators to maintain an electrical power supply to the site. The generators will be used solely for the 
purpose for generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the installation. 
Diesel fuel for the generators is stored in belly tanks located under each generator. The Centro and Maylands 
sites also have above ground bulk diesel storage tanks. 
The total capacity of diesel that can be stored at each site (including belly tanks and bulk storage tanks) is: 
- Campus  881,000 litres; 
- Centro     78,366 litres; 
- Maylands  283,360 litres; 
- HH4 (Phase 1)  600,000 litres. 
- Total stored fuel           1,842,726 litres  
There is a contractual agreement with the data owners that each of the four data centres must have diesel 
storage capacity on site to allow 36 hours of generator operation in the event of National Grid failure. 
The belly tanks at Maylands (Suite 1 generators only) and Centro data centres are filled directly from the bulk 
storage diesel tanks located on these sites. For the Maylands data centre (with the exception of Suite 1 
generators), Campus and HH4 (phase 1) data centres, the belly tanks are filled directly from refuelling vehicles. 
Fuel is delivered directly to the belly tanks via fill points which are located on the generator container units. 
These are positioned in lockable cabinets which are designed with drip trays. 
The operation of the data centre diesel generators does not result in the generation of trade effluent. 
The drainage to foul sewer at the four data centre sites consists of only sanitary foul water (sinks, toilets, 
cleaning water etc.) which is not regulated through this permit. 
All surface water run-off at the four data centre sites is directed to the site surface water drainage system which 
is fitted with oil interceptors except for the Centro data centre whose run-off is discharged directly to the surface 
water drainage system without passing through an on-site oil interceptor. The site surface water drainage 
system is discharged to the municipal surface water drainage system. Only the interceptor at the newest HH4 
(phase 1) site will alarm if oil is present. All interceptors will be emptied, cleaned and maintained at least 
annually by an appointed specialist contractor. 
There are no discharges to foul sewer within the plant areas on each datacentre site where the generators and 
diesel storage are located. All run-off from these areas drains to the site-specific surface water drainage 
systems prior to off-site discharge into the municipal sewer system. The surface water drainage system at each 
of the datacentres will accept surface water runoff from the areas where the generator container units and 
associated diesel storage are located, along with water from the building roof area and other hard surfaced 
areas of the site. 
The location in which the four data centres are situated is a mix of commercial, industrial, agricultural and 
recreational land with residential properties, woodland, playing fields, allotments and a cemetery close by.  
The closest residential properties to any of the four data centres are approximately 115 m north-west of the HH4 
(phase 1) site. 
The sites are located approximately 7.5 km south-east of Chilterns Beechwoods Special Area of Conservation 
(SAC). There are a number of Local Wildlife Sites, Local Nature Reserves and Ancient Woodlands within 2 km 
of the four data centres. 
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number. 
 