 
                       Page 10 of 32 
500 Hours Electrical Grid Outage Scenario: 
- The PC did not exceed 1% of the annual mean Critical level (CLe) at the SAC (Chilterns 
Beechwoods); 
- The maximum daily PC did exceed 10% of the daily mean CLe, the maximum daily PC 
exceeded 10% of the daily mean CLe and the PEC (predicted environmental 
concentration) exceeded the CLe meaning that it could not therefore be concluded that 
there was ‘no likely significant effect’ at the SAC (Chilterns Beechwoods); 
- The PC did not exceed 100% of the annual mean CL e at the Local Wildlife Sites (LWS). 
However there was a risk of exceedance of the daily mean CLe for 24-hour continuous 
operation and therefore it could not be concluded there was ‘no significant pollution’; 
- Acid deposition and nutrient nitrogen deposition did not exceed the relevant critical loads 
and could therefore be deemed ‘insignificant’. 
 
Environment Agency review of applicant’s assessment of potential impact on air quality: 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and sensitivity analysis 
on the air quality and habitats assessments presented by the operator.  
In this assessment we: 
- Considered meteorological data from a second station at Hatfield Airport in addition to the 
data from Luton Airport considered by the operator; 
- Reviewed the outcome of the modelling with differing surface roughness and terrain data 
from those used by the operator; 
- Considered a more conservative background for each pollutant (NO2, PM10, PM2.5 and 
CO) 
- Assessed predictions against the US EPA Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGLs) and 
nitrogen monoxide (NO) environmental assessment level both of which the operator had 
not done. 
Whilst we did not always agree exactly with their numerical predictions, we did agree with their 
overall conclusions in regard to the potential impacts on both human health and ecological 
receptors. 
We agreed with the applicant’s inclusion of 314 buildings within their modelling assessment. 
However the majority of stacks are below building heights which will lead to poorer dispersion and 
higher localised concentrations of pollutants. Whilst the sites at Centro, Campus and Maylands 
are existing operational facilities, the site at HH4 was being developed at the time of permit 
application. The operator noted that the stacks at HH4 site “will terminate just below the roof 
height level”. 
We have included an improvement condition (IC8) requiring the operator to review the potential 
for reduced emissions from the generator stacks or improved dispersion of emissions which will 
require them to review the heights of stacks on the four sites. 
We have completed a model run with all sources operational and grouped for each site and 
assessed which site produces the highest contributions to the impacts at nearby receptors. Our 
results indicate that the Campus site will likely have the highest impacts followed by the new HH4 
site (original scope of HH4). We conclude that if emissions from the Campus site could 
preferentially be reduced then this would be beneficial to the overall impacts at receptors. We 
have included that requirement in IC8. 
In our assessment of the impact on human health receptors, we have concluded for both 
testing/maintenance and emergency operation scenarios that: 