 
                       Page 24 of 32 
The regulated facility 
We considered the extent and nature of the facilities at the site in accordance with RGN2 
‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of RGN2 ‘Defining the scope of the 
installation’ and Appendix 1 of RGN 2 ‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’. 
The extent of the facilities are defined in the site plan and in the permit. The activities are defined 
in table S1.1 of the permit. 
See key issues for more discussion on the nature of the site. 
The site 
The operator has provided plans which we consider to be satisfactory. 
These show the extent of the site of the facility including the discharge points. 
The plans are included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we consider is not 
satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on site condition reports 
and baseline reporting under the Industrial Emissions Directive. 
We have advised the operator what measures they need to take to improve the site condition 
report. 
We have included an improvement condition in the permit (IC6) for the operator to obtain baseline 
soil and groundwater reference data for the Centro, Campus and Maylands Datacentres. 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the screening distances 
we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations. The application is within our screening distances for these 
designations.  
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations identified in the nature 
conservation screening report as part of the permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any site of nature conservation, landscape and 
heritage, and/or protected species or habitats identified. 
We have consulted Natural England on our Habitats Regulation assessment. Natural England 
have made no comment on our assessment. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
Climate change adaptation 
We have assessed the climate change adaptation risk assessment. 
We consider the climate change adaptation risk assessment is satisfactory. 