 
                       Page 25 of 32 
We have decided to include a condition in the permit requiring the operator to review and update 
their climate change risk assessment over the life of the permit. 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with the relevant 
guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate techniques for the facility. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 in the 
environmental permit 
Operating techniques for emissions that do not screen out as insignificant 
Emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) cannot be screened out as insignificant. We have assessed 
whether the proposed techniques are Best Available Techniques (BAT). 
We agree with the applicant that the use of diesel generators to supply power to site in the event 
of National Grid outage is BAT when compared with alternative power generation techniques 
(refer to key issues section). 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as insignificant 
Emissions of PM10, PM2.5, CO and SO2 (by virtue of sulphur content of fuel) have been screened 
out as insignificant, and so we agree that the applicant’s proposed techniques are Best Available 
Techniques (BAT) for the installation. 
We consider that the emission limits included in the installation permit reflect the BAT for the 
sector. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by the National 
Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit values in line with technical 
guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will aid the delivery of national air quality 
targets. We do not consider that we need to include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Raw materials  
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include an improvement 
programme. 
See key issues. 
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
See key issues. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed in the permit, 
using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission points: 
- HH4 (Phase 1) Data Centre: HH4 06-10, HH4 16 – 20 and HH4 26 – 30 