 
                       Page 23 of 32 
directly from refuelling vehicles. The protective measures for the belly tanks will not differ from 
those in the original application. 
 
 
Noise. 
Noise is not a significant aspect of data centre permitting (noting that it is only the standby 
generators and associated diesel supply systems that are permitted – not the operation of the 
data centre itself). However the applicant demonstrated that operation of the Kohler T2500 
generators will be quieter than operation of the previously planned Kohler KD1800 generators.  
 
Conclusion: 
We have assessed the predicted environmental impact of the revised proposal for HH4 data 
centre phase 1 operation and are satisfied that it will not be any greater than that already 
assessed as acceptable for the proposed HH4 configuration in the original application. 
We are therefore able to permit operation of Centro, Campus, Maylands and HH4 (Phase 1) data 
centre sites. 
 
 
Decision considerations 
Confidential information 
A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
Identifying confidential information 
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that we consider to be 
confidential.   
Consultation 
The consultation requirements were identified in accordance with the Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations (2016) and our public participation statement. 
The application was publicised on the GOV.UK website. 
We consulted the following organisations: 
- Dacorum Borough Council Environmental Health Department; 
- Dacorum Borough Council Planning Department; 
- Director of Public Health and Public Health England; 
- National Grid; 
- Hertfordshire Fire and Rescue Services; 
- Health and Safety Executive; 
- Sewerage Authority. 
The comments and our responses are summarised in the consultation responses section. 
Operator 
We are satisfied that the applicant (now the operator) is the person who will have control over the 
operation of the facility after the grant of the permit. The decision was taken in accordance with 
our guidance on legal operator for environmental permits. 