 
                       Page 11 of 32 
- The long term pollutant concentration for NO 2 was ‘not insignificant’ for all receptors (i.e., 
over 1%) and the PECs were below the environmental standard; 
- There were exceedances of the NO 2 1-hour environmental standard for the maintenance 
scenario although statistical analysis indicates that the probability of this occurring is less 
than 5%, i.e., ‘highly unlikely’; 
- There are no potential exceedances of the environmental standard for PM 10, PM2.5 or CO 
for human health receptors. 
We reviewed the modelling provided by the applicant which appeared to indicate potential 
exceedances of the1 hour mean NOx AEGL-1 limits at the 100 percentile (which is a conservative 
approach) during maintenance/testing scenarios at up to six of the forty eight sensitive human 
receptors assessed. We ran our model at the 99.79th percentile and also found exceedances. We 
then undertook further statistical analysis to understand the probability of exceedance and ran the 
modelling with the probability derived from the hypergeometric calculations. With this new 
percentile the values we obtained were lower than those proposed by the applicant and we found 
no exceedances of AEGL-1 limits for the maintenance/testing scenario. Exceedances of AEGL-1 
limits are only appropriate for the emergency scenario. 
We have concluded for the potential impact on human health receptors that in the emergency 
operational scenario: 
- There are exceedances of the 10 -minute and 1 -hour averaging period NO 2 AEGLs at a 
total of 25 discrete sensitive human health receptors outside the site boundary; 
- There are exceedances of the short term nitrogen monoxide (NO) environmental 
assessment limit. 
We have audited the additional modelling of NOx emissions relating to the revised 1-hour and 36-
hour emergency outage scenarios. We agree with the applicant’s conclusion that the probability of 
exceedances are <0.1% in both scenarios.  
Furthermore we conclude that the probability of an emergency coinciding with the predicted 
exceedance hours and causing 19 or more exceedances of the short-term NO2 environmental 
standard (ES) is low as long as power outages do not occur for more than 100 hours in a year. 
In assessing the impact on ecological receptors, we have concluded that: 
- The critical annual NOx is less than 1% for the SAC (Chilterns Beechwoods); 
- The PCs are less than 100% for all local wildlife sites and can be deemed ‘insignificant’; 
- The daily NOx PCs are less than 10% for the SAC (Chilterns Beechwoods); 
- Daily NOx PCs are greater than 100% for the Widmore Wood LWS and Maylands Wood 
LWS and cannot be deemed ‘insignificant’; 
- Acid deposition and nutrient nitrogen deposition do not exceed 1% of the relevant critical 
loads at the Chilterns Beechwoods SAC or exceed 100% of the relevant critical loads at 
any LWS assessed and therefore can be deemed ‘insignificant’. 
We have included an improvement condition (IC7) requiring the operator to submit a report 
verifying the predicted short-term nitrogen monoxide (NO) concentration at the boundary of the 
site. We have included nitrogen monoxide within the scope of IC8 which requires the operator to 
carry out a review of options for reducing predicted short-term NOx emissions.  
We assessed further the potential impact at the Widmore Wood LWS and Maylands Wood LWS. 
For Widmore Wood, approximately 80% was exceeding and for Maylands Wood it was 
approximately 60% of the LWS that was exceeding under worst case conditions. The applicant 
modelled that, for the worst case receptors at both sites, the maximum exceedance was <200% 
of the daily environmental standard for the maintenance/testing scenario. We agreed with those 
maximum predictions. 