 
                       Page 19 of 32 
Maylands. 
Run-off drains to the on-site surface water drainage system via an oil interceptor prior to off-site 
discharge into the municipal sewer system. Surface water runoff discharges via one discharge 
point (ML-SW1) off site. The location of discharge point ML-SW1 is presented on its site plan in 
Schedule 7 (drawing 002C in the permit application documentation). 
There are two interceptors on the Maylands site. The surface water runoff from the area where 
the generators and associated bulk diesel storage are located is directed via the interceptor 
located in the south western area of the datacentre site, prior to discharge off site into the 
municipal drainage system. 
Centro. 
Run-off from plant areas drains to the on-site surface water drainage system prior to off-site 
discharge into the municipal sewer system.  Surface water runoff discharges via discharge point 
(Centro C-SW1) off site. There are no oil interceptors in place on the Centro datacentre site. The 
location of discharge point Centro C-SW1 is presented on its site plan in Schedule 7 (drawing 
002B in the permit application documentation). 
HH4 (Phase 1). 
Run-off from plant areas drain to the on-site surface water drainage system prior to off-site 
discharge into the municipal surface water drainage system operated by Thames Water Limited 
via discharge point HH4-SW1. All run-off from this area will drain to the on-site surface water 
drainage system via a full retention oil interceptor (with an alarm to indicate the presence of oil) 
and a below ground storm water attenuation tank (700m3) prior to off-site discharge into the 
municipal sewer system. The interceptor will be emptied, cleaned and maintained at least 
annually by an appointed specialist contractor. The location of discharge point HH4-SW1 is 
presented on its site plan in Schedule 7 (drawing 002D in the permit application documentation). 
An improvement condition, IC10, has been included in the permit requiring the operator to confirm 
surface water discharge from the Maylands and Centro sites and to assess, with improvements if 
required, whether the surface water from the four data centre sites eventually is discharged to a 
waste water (sewage) treatment plant. 
 
Permit Conditions. 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ 
for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity. 
Therefore emission limit values (ELVs) to air and engine emissions monitoring are not required 
within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned hours required to come 
off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring only within 
the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a 
planned way for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring 
under the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) and Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD). 
The Environment Agency expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised to 
minimise occasions and durations (subject to client requirements). 
The permit prevents any electricity produced at the installation from being exported to the 
National Grid. 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling 
by minimising the duration of testing, the duration and frequency of whole site tests and planning 