 
                       Page 14 of 32 
 
- Operates the electrical supplies for each datacentre on an automatic basis where any 
fluctuations or loss of power are detected and the appropriate response is automatically 
initiated to ensure power supply is maintained (either start-up of the battery array followed 
by operation of the diesel generators if required); 
 
- Maintains robust site security systems such as perimeter fencing, CCTV cameras and 24-
hour on-site security staff providing protection against any form of unauthorised intrusion 
that could affect operation and cause the need for the generators to be operated. 
Centro is a small datacentre (9.96MWth input) and the operator has assessed that the single 
National Grid feed and lack of independence of the customer suites provides sufficient resilience 
and reliability required by their customers. 
The operator manages data storage services at all four datacentre sites in accordance with the 
following standards: 
• ISO/IEC 27001:2013 that specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining 
and continually improving an information security management system; 
• ISO 14001:2015 that specifies the requirements for an environmental management system to 
enable an organisation to develop and implement a policy and objectives which take into account 
legal requirements and other requirements to which the organisation subscribes, and information 
about significant environmental aspects; and 
• ISO9001:2015 that specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, monitoring, 
managing and improving quality throughout the organisation. 
None of the sites have experienced brown- or black-out scenarios in the local power transmission 
system that required the use of the generators since the three pre-existing sites were first 
developed as datacentres in 2010/2011. 
 
Containment and Prevention of Pollution to Ground and Groundwater. 
Fuel Storage and Distribution. 
The arrangements for the storage and distribution of diesel are different across the four sites but 
the applicant has demonstrated in all circumstances that there are robust systems in place for the 
containment of fuel. 
Storage of diesel occurs in “belly” tanks located at the base of the generator container units and, 
on two of the sites, in above ground bulk storage tanks. 
The generators at each datacentre are housed within propriety steel container units located in the 
external yard areas. Beneath the floor of the container units for each generator is a belly tank 
which is integral to the generator container unit and automatically supplies diesel to the 
generator. 
The belly tanks at the three existing data centres are designed to British Standard BS799 Part 5 
1987 (Oil Burning Equipment. Specification for Oil Storage Tanks), which stipulates a requirement 
for 110% containment. The belly tanks have been certified to this standard, as indicated on the 
name plates of the generator units. The belly tanks at the new HH4 data centre have been 
designed to British Standard 799-5:2010 (Oil burning equipment. Carbon steel oil storage tanks. 
Specification). 
The belly tanks are therefore considered to comply with the Oil Storage Regulations (2001). 