 
                       Page 20 of 32 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to any high ambient 
pollutant background levels. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the reliability of the local electricity 
grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant 
needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode is very low. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical 
outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require both immediate notification to the 
Environment Agency and annual reporting. 
Improvement Conditions. 
The following improvement conditions (ICs) have been included in the permit: 
IC1 which requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining measures to be taken in the event of a National Grid 
failure. In response to comments from Public Health England at consultation, this AQMP must 
consider all grid outages – including those of less than 18 hours duration. 
IC2 which requires the operator to review and report on the tertiary containment systems on the 
four sites as there is an indication in the application that diesel spillage could escape from the 
Centro site onto an adjacent area of unsurfaced land and limited evidence that oil-contaminated 
water from the permitted site at Campus cannot be discharged via unpermitted discharge point, 
SW2. 
IC3 which requires the operator to investigate the possibility of installing an alarmed oil/water 
interceptor at the Centro site which is the only one of the four permitted NTT Hemel Hempstead 
sites without an interceptor. 
IC4 which requires the operator to submit for approval written procedures for maintenance, 
inspection and testing of drains along with timescales for their implementation as these systems 
were not fully developed when the permit application was submitted. 
IC5 which requires the operator to submit for approval written procedures and timescales for the 
inspection of below ground storm water and attenuation tanks at Campus and HH4 (phase 1 
sites) as these systems were not fully developed when the permit application was submitted. 
IC6 requiring the operator to submit for approval a programme to obtain baseline soil and 
groundwater data for the Campus, Centro and Maylands sites as only comprehensive baseline 
data were submitted in the application for the newer HH4 site. 
IC7 requiring the operator to submit for approval a report verifying the predicted short term 
nitrogen oxides concentration at the boundary of the site to include consideration of both nitrogen 
dioxide and nitrogen monoxide. The output of the verification exercise should be used to inform or 
revise the air quality management plan if necessary. 
IC8 requiring the operator to submit for approval a review of options to reduce predicted short 
term nitrogen dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions. In response to comments from Public Health 
England at consultation, this must also take into account the weather conditions demonstrated by 
modelling to have the greatest potential for environmental impact. It should focus primarily on the 
Campus and HH4 (phase 1) sites, the releases to air from whose operation has the most 
potential for impact. 
IC9 which requires the operator to submit for approval a monitoring plan that will outline their 
proposal for implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements outlined in Table S3.1. As 
monitoring CO and NO2 emissions from stacks was not a requirement for the operator at the time 