 
                       Page 17 of 32 
o The delivery pipework from the bulk tanks to the generators is above ground level with a 
pipe-in-pipe arrangement to minimise the risk of leaks. Leak detection is provided on the 
delivery pipework which is connected to the site’s BMS; and 
o To minimise the risk or corrosion all pipework is painted or is constructed of corrosion 
resistant material 
 
Should there be any minor spillages of diesel, they will be cleaned up using proprietary spill kits 
and the oil contaminated materials will then be stored in suitable bunded containers in a waste 
storage area on the site prior to off-site disposal by an NTT approved waste contractor. Any major 
spillages/leaks of oil will be transferred to suitable containers or directly to road tanker for off-site 
treatment/disposal by a suitably licensed waste contractor. The management of spills will be 
undertaken in accordance with NTT’s spill procedures HS12-P01 (Spillage Procedure) and HS04-
TT44 (Spillage Response). 
Bulk deliveries of diesel are from NTT approved suppliers. The delivery of diesel is undertaken in 
accordance with procedure HS12-P02 (Diesel oil delivery procedure). This procedure requires a 
NTT engineer to escort the fuel tanker to the relevant delivery tank, to unlock and open the tank 
fill point and to test the tank’s high level alarm is working. Only then will the fuel delivery driver be 
allowed to connect the tanker delivery hose and deliver the fuel. Following delivery of the fuel, the 
tanker driver is required to ensure that the delivery hose is ‘blown down’ to remove any residual 
diesel in the hose and thus avoid fuel spillage on disconnection. The fuel supplier is required to 
ensure that a fuel spill kit is available on the fuel delivery vehicle. 
Tertiary containment is provided by the hardstanding of the external areas where these tanks are 
located. 
In regard to Centro, the yard area of this site where the bulk tank is located is cambered towards 
the main datacentre building helping direct the flow of any significant volumes of diesel in this 
direction. Diesel will then either enter the surface water drainage system or collect at the lowest 
point of the cambered yard adjacent to the datacentre building. However, the site boundary is in 
close proximity to one side of the bulk storage tank and does not have a raised kerb to help 
contain any significant spills, whilst the cambered nature of the yard area of this site will help 
direct the flow of any significant volumes of diesel towards the datacentre building, there is the 
potential that in the event of a significant release of diesel did occur, the diesel could exit the site 
and impact an adjacent area of unsurfaced land. We have included an improvement condition 
(IC2) requiring the operator to review tertiary containment across all four sites. 
Additionally, should diesel enter the surface water drainage system at Centro, there is no 
interceptor present and therefore there is the potential for diesel to discharge into the municipal 
sewage system. To minimise this risk NTT has purchased a drain bladder to block the drains in 
the event of an unplanned release of diesel. This bladder has been positioned by the last 
drainage manhole prior to offsite discharge into the municipal sewer. NTT must update their spill 
response procedures and provide training to designated NTT staff. NTT has also indicated in the 
permit application that they will investigate the possibility of installing an interceptor or the 
provision of alternative infrastructure to minimise the risk of discharge of diesel to the 
environment at the Centro site. We have included an improvement condition (IC3) requiring them 
to carry out this investigation. 
With regard to Maylands, the external hardstanding areas are kerbed minimising the risk of an 
unplanned release of diesel leaving the site. Additionally, any significant volumes of leaked/spilled 
diesel would be directed to the surface water drainage system by the camber of the land and 
diesel would be captured by the on-site alarmed interceptors. To further minimise this risk, NTT 
has purchased a drain bladder to block the drains in the event of an unplanned release of diesel; 
this bladder has been positioned by the last drainage manhole prior to offsite discharge into the 