 
Permit Number            
EPR/BP3800PZ            14 
Table S1.2 Operating techniques 
Description Parts Date Received 
Additional information 
received 
Operating techniques described in the responses to a request 
for further information (including accompanying information): 
- Operation of standby engines during periods related to 
neither maintenance/testing nor emergency outage 
scenarios.  
03/08/21 
Additional information 
received 
Operating techniques described in the responses to a request 
for further information (including accompanying information): 
- Management of surface water discharges. 
01/10/21 and 
16/11/21 
Additional information 
received 
Operating techniques described in the responses to a request 
for further information (including accompanying information): 
- Monitoring of diesel levels in belly tanks and above ground 
storage tanks to detect a potential leak. 
11/10/21 
Additional information 
received 
Operating techniques described in the responses to a request 
for further information (including accompanying information): 
- Sections 2 – 10 of Document “HH4 Data Centre Phase 1 
Operation Risk Assessment”. 
20/10/21 
 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in conjunction 
with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be taken in the 
event of a National Grid failure. This should include but not be limited to the 
following considerations:  
 The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
 Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit  the 
duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours as far as possible; 
 Specific timescales for response measures; 
 How local conditions during a National Grid failure might influence 
the response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
 Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
 Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The Air Quality Management Plan shall include consideration of grid 
outages which last less than 18 hours as potentially unacceptable acute 
exposure may occur to human health receptors because of generator 
operation for less than 18 hours. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for written approval. 
30/06/2022 
IC2 The operator shall carry out a review of the tertiary containment systems 
which serve the diesel storage tanks (belly tanks and bulk storage tanks) at 
all four data centre sites.  
The review shall compare the design, method of construction and integrity 
of the systems against the standards outlined in CIRIA guidance C736 – 
Containment Systems for the Prevention of Pollution or an equivalent 
industry standard.  
28/02/2022 