 
                       Page 4 of 32 
The operation and accreditation of these management systems are no different to those observed 
in companies with multiple sites located across a wide geographical area and do not constitute a 
level of management system control that would demonstrate that the four Hemel Hempstead 
datacentres should be considered as one site. 
Campus and HH4 datacentres have their own dedicated staff including security and maintenance 
teams. The Maylands and Centro datacentres are effectively treated as a single datacentre for 
operational proposes and do share staff. 
We have decided that the four Hemel Hempstead datacentres do not meet the criteria for 
proximity, coherence and management systems required for multiple sites to be defined as a 
single site. It is our decision therefore that the four NTT datacentres are not located on “one site”. 
Although we do not consider them to be “one site”, we have chosen in this instance to include all 
four NTT Hemel Hempstead datacentres in the one permit because: 
 The individual permitted activities are the operation of the generators at the data centres 
and they will therefore only run in very limited circumstances; 
 When they do run, the sites share sensitive receptors and the air dispersion modelling 
shows there is an overlap in impacts so we consider there are environmental benefits to 
us taking this approach in this instance.  
 We consider some of the data centres ‘one site’ (Campus and Centro) and we don’t 
consider the addition of the other ones to be a significant addition of regulatory input for 
us due to their limited operation. 
We have decided on this method of permitting these sites for the reasons given above. This 
approach is not applicable to other permitting sectors.  
 
 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) Assessment – Emergency Power Provision on Site. 
The operator carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies capable of providing 
emergency power at the data centre. 
They considered the following technologies: 
- Combined cycle gas turbines (CCGT); 
