 
                       Page 3 of 32 
Key issues of the decision 
Nature of the site. 
The operator applied to permit all four datacentres as the same site within a single environmental 
permit. 
 
Our existing guidance, “Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach”, notes in Section 1.3.5 that several 
premises located over an area within a commercial/urban environment can be designated as the 
“same site” on an assessment of proximity, coherence and management systems.  
According to this guidance, there are no simple distance criteria that demonstrate proximity - 
rather a site specific decision based on a reasonable interpretation.  As an example, it is stated 
that proximity can be understood as “immediately adjacent to” or “a road width” or “uninterrupted 
line of sight between buildings”. Based on these criteria, Campus and Centro are close enough to 
be considered the “same site”. Maylands and HH4 sites are located further from the Campus and 
Centro sites and do not meet the definition of proximity in our guidance.  
Where there is greater physical separation, our guidance states that more coherence and 
management links are required. 
The operation of the generators at each site would produce electricity for each site alone. There 
is no electricity shared between the four sites. There are no direct and dedicated power links 
shared between all four data centres. There is no sharing of physical resources such as fuel 
storage tanks between the four sites. Each datacentre will be totally independent of the other 
Hemel Hempstead datacentres. In fact this independence of physical resources is required by the 
operator for datacentre resilience purposes. There is therefore limited coherence between these 
sites. 
NTT is certified to ISO standards (ISO/IEC 27001:2013; ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2015) at 
group level and these certified standards are applicable to all the NTT Hemel Hempstead 
datacentres. There is a single environmental policy applicable to the entire NTT Group. There are 
core Environmental Management System (EMS) documents that are applicable to all NTT 
datacentre sites such as those on staff competence, document control and internal audits. 
Separate procedures have been developed where there are site-specific requirements at 
datacentres such as maintenance and testing procedures. 
