 
                       Page 12 of 32 
The applicant had proposed there was a low likelihood of these maximum exceedances occurring 
based on the operational scenarios they proposed for maintenance/testing. They said their 
probability of occurring was <5%. We have calculated an even lower probability and we are 
confident that the likelihood of exceedance is very low. Because of this we agree with the 
applicant that accepting their proposed maintenance/testing regimes would likely be an 
acceptable risk in relation to Widmore Wood and Mayland Wood LWS. 
 
Operation of standby generators during periods related to neither routine 
maintenance/testing and grid outage scenarios: 
The applicant submitted data relating to the number of hours that the standby generators at the 
three operational sites (Campus, Centro and Maylands) had operated during 2018 for reasons 
other than routine maintenance/testing and grid outage. These operational scenarios related to 
events such as generator repair, UPS (uninterruptable power supply) repair, battery replacement 
and switchgear/wiring modifications. This totalled 180 hours in 2018.  
These additional hours operation of the standby generators was not included in either of the 
operational scenarios modelled. 
We have accepted that these additional hours of generator operation do not require inclusion in 
the modelling as: 
- It is not possible for the operator to predict in advance the number of hours each year that 
generators would be required to be operated in this manner; 
- Where unplanned maintenance activities require the generators to be operated, this 
operation will, if possible, replace the scheduled monthly planned testing of that 
generator (assuming the planned testing has not already occurred for that generator that 
month); 
- The operation of the generators for non-planned maintenance is generally short (1-6 
hours typically) with the longest run in 2018 being one generator operated for 16 hours 
due to a UPS repair (Campus generator 18); 
- On only one occasion in 2018 did more than one generator operate on the same day for 
non-routine activities (9th October when Campus DC2 generators 10A and 10B operated 
for one hour each; 
- The operation of each generator in 2018 for planned maintenance/testing plus any 
additional non-routine operation remained below the 50 hours annual limit stated in our 
FAQ Guidance (with the exception of Campus generator 18 which operated for a total of 
61 hours). 
We have agreed that modelling the two operational scenarios of routine maintenance/testing and 
grid outage are acceptable in demonstrating the potential impact on air quality from operation of 
the standby generators. 
 
Protection against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation. 
 
The largest risk of gaseous emissions from the site occurring which could impact human health or 
ecological receptors would be if the diesel generators had to operate for any significant period of 
time following a National Grid failure. 
 
To address this scenario and minimise emissions, the operator: 
- Operates the datacentres to provide the maximum reliability of electrical power supply to 
the on-site systems by designing and building them to Uptime Institute Tier III standards 