 
                       Page 28 of 32 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on 
GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination 
process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section: 
Response received from: Dacorum Borough Council Environmental Health Department – 
Response 1 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
The consultee noted that modelling of the 500-hours electrical grid outage scenario predicted 
potential exceedances of the 1-hour mean at sensitive receptors in respect of nitrogen dioxide. 
They said that if such a development resulted in a new air quality management area being 
declared, the Council would strongly object to such a development being permitted.  
The consultee also noted that the applicant had considered the likely impact from NOx emissions 
but not from fine particles, such as PM10 and PM2.5, and they would not be supportive of the 
application without full consideration of the likely air quality impacts. 
Summary of actions taken: 
The scenario of 500 hours emergency outage is not deemed realistic in an operational scenario 
where none of the generators in the three operational sites have ever operated in an emergency 
outage since they commenced operation. The operator revised their modelling of emergency 
outage situations to include more realistic outage scenarios – one hour and 36 hours (the latter 
period representing the maximum amount of diesel that the data centre is contracted to hold on 
site in event of national grid outage). 
The revised modelling indicated that, at both one hour and 36 hour emergency operation, the 
probability of 1-hour mean NO2 exceeding the AQAL for more than the permitted 18 occasions 
within a year, is <0.1% and therefore ‘highly unlikely’. 
The applicant also expanded their modelling to include PM10 PM2.5 and carbon monoxide (CO). 
For the scenarios of routine testing/maintenance and the 1-hour and 36-hour emergency outages, 
there were no predicted exceedances of these parameters at the sensitive receptors. We 
accepted the applicant’s decision to rule out the need to model for SO2 impact due to the use of 
low sulphur containing fuel in the generators. 
 
Response received from: Dacorum Borough Council Environmental Health Department – 
Response 2 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
The consultee questioned: 
(a) Whether, in the event of an energy crisis requiring the generators to be operated for a much 
longer period than the more representative 1-hour or 36-hour periods, there was anything within 
permit conditions requiring the operator to report their usage from each site; 
(b) Whether there was any conditions triggering a permit review or corrective action; 
(c) Whether the cumulative impact of other sites that might be local contributors is considered. 
 
 
 