 
                       Page 8 of 32 
Their conclusions were: 
Impact on Human Health Receptors: 
Scenario 1: 
Maintenance/Testing Scenarios: 
- The annual mean NO2 AQAL (air quality assessment level) is not predicted to be 
exceeded at any of the human health receptors; 
- There were no exceedances of PM10, PM2.5, or CO air quality assessment levels; 
- Statistical analysis of the probability of exceedance of the 1-hour mean NO2 AQAL 
predicted exceedances were highly unlikely at all modelled sensitive human health 
receptors 
500 Hours Electrical Grid Outage Scenario: 
- The annual mean AQAL for NO2 was not predicted to be exceeded at any of the selected 
human health receptors; 
- Statistical analysis indicated there was potential for exceedances of the 1-hour mean for 
NO2 at sensitive receptors; 
- There were no exceedances of the air quality assessment levels for PM10, PM2.5, or CO. 
Although the permit would authorise up to 500 hours operation of the generators under 
emergency conditions and therefore 500 hours operation would be a worst case scenario we did 
not believe that modelling 500 hours operation would give a realistic picture of national grid 
outages. The three operational sites have never simultaneously experienced operation of the 
generators in response to an emergency outage scenario since these sites commenced 
operation. 
The applicant therefore submitted additional modelling of the impacts of NO2 releases at both 1-
hour and 36-hour emergency operation. The latter period was chosen as the data centres are 
contracted to hold enough diesel on site at any time for 36 hours operation of the generators. 
With regard to the 1-hour mean NO2 releases, this additional modelling indicated the probability of 
exceedance (greater than the permitted number of 18 exceedances of the 1-hour limit in a 
calendar year) was <0.1% for both 1-hour and 36-hour emergency outages and therefore was 
‘highly unlikely’. 
The applicant has proposed that these 1-hour and 36-hour outage scenarios have helped refine 
the precautionary approach to an electrical outage with the more realistic emergency scenario 
being effectively 1-hour. They demonstrate that any outage less than 36 hours results in the risk 
of an exceedance being less than 5% and therefore ‘unlikely’.  
Under their new ‘realistic’ emergency outage scenario (1-hour outage): 
- Assessment against annual mean limit value results in no exceedance; 
- Assessment against 1-hour mean (99.8%ile) limit value results in exceedances of <1% 
and therefore ‘highly unlikely’; 
- Assessment against 1-hour mean (100%ile) indicates that the probability of a grid outage 
coinciding with the worst hours in the year for dispersion resulting in 100%ile impact is 
again <1% and therefore ‘highly unlikely’. 
Even these modelled electrical outages are most probably worst case as the applicant carried out 
further research into National Grid outages in England using the report, ”National Electricity 
Transmission System Performance Report 2019-20”. This stated that the overall reliability of 
supply for the national electricity transmission system in 2019-2020 was 99.999967%. During this 
time period there were 586 events where transmission circuits were disconnected either 
automatically or by urgent manual switching, the vast majority of which did not have an impact on 
electricity users, with only 20 such events resulting in loss of supply to customers. Of these 586 