 
                       Page 5 of 32 
- Open cycle gas turbines; 
- Aero derivative gas turbines; 
- Gas engines; 
- Diesel engines. 
They compared these technologies against the following considerations: 
- Start-up time; 
- Reliability; 
- Independence of off-system services; 
- Causing the least environmental impact. 
The operator demonstrated there were significant reasons for not selecting combined cycle gas 
turbines, open cycle gas turbines and aero derivative gas turbines. However both gas engines 
and diesel engines provided the fast response speed required but the diesel engines had a 
significantly greater environmental impact from gaseous releases. 
The operator further justified the choice of diesel over gas as a fuel for the engines because it 
allowed the required level of resilience at the datacentres. The NTT datacentre customer 
contracts were based on the requirement for each datacentre to have on-site sufficient energy 
storage to provide up to 36 hours of fuel supply for the generators in the event of an unplanned 
emergency situation. 
The storage of sufficient gas on-site as a fuel source was not possible due to restraints on 
available space. Additionally there were increased health and safety risks associated with such 
storage. There would be reliance on an off-site supply of gas, which would have to be provided to 
the sites via a pipeline operated and maintained by a third party. Should this supply of gas be 
interrupted there would be no emergency back-up generation for the sites, and as such would not 
meet the resilience requirements of the facilities. 
From the options considered, the applicant therefore demonstrated that diesel engines were BAT 
to provide emergency/standby power for the datacentres on the basis that: 
- These engines provide a fast response speed to the required load (fast start-up of 
standby generators for datacentres is fundamental to their operation as an almost 
instantaneous supply of electricity is required in the event of power loss to the site). 
- The need for a reliable supply of fuel (diesel) is essential to ensure reliance (the on-site 
storage of sufficient quantities of diesel fuel provides the required level of independent 
performance reliability on site). 
- Diesel engines have low maintenance costs and replacement parts are readily available. 
 
Based on this assessment and the fact that diesel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres, we accept that diesel fired generators can be 
considered BAT. 
 
The operator has justified the use across the four datacentres of a larger number of smaller 
generators rather than fewer but larger generators: 
 
- A larger number of smaller generators allows them the flexibility to achieve the required 
electrical output in the event of an emergency situation with only the necessary number of 
generators operating to deliver the required electrical load. This would result in reduced 
consumption of diesel and hence generation of less emissions to air from the generators. 
 
- The generators have been selected based on the customer demand and the required 
electrical load for each datacentre suite. This ensures that the generators are operated at 