 
                       Page 7 of 32 
 
- 9 Local Wildlife Sites: 
o Disused railway line, Hemel Hempstead; Nicky Way, Dismantled Railway; 
o High Wood; Woodhall Wood; Widmore Wood; Maylands Wood; 
o Paradise Fields Central; Rant Meadow Wood/Bennets End Pit; 
o Holy Trinity Church, Leverstock Green. 
 
- 1 Ancient Woodland 
o Unnamed Ancient Woodland. 
The data centre is not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and there are no 
AQMAs within 2km of the site. The closest AQMA is St. Albans No.2 declared as a result of 
exceedances of the annual mean NO2. This is located about 3.2 km south east of the four NTT 
datacentre sites. 
NTT assessed two scenarios: 
- Scenario 1 (Routine maintenance scenario - the predictable, managed testing and 
maintenance activity for the generators ); 
o Maintenance Schedule 1 – 1 suite of generators at Maylands, 1 suite of generators 
at Centro, 1 suite of generators at Campus, 1 suite of generators at HH4 have 
been modelled operating continuously. The annual mean and 1 -hour mean 
impacts are assessed to account for 13 hours (monthly maintenance 12hrs and 
black building test) . This will be up to a maximum of 169 hours at any one site 
based on Campus having 13 suites including a pair of X1000 generators located 
at Campus. 
o Maintenance Schedule 2 – 1 suite at Maylands, 1 suite at Centro, 1 suite at 
Campus, 1 suite at HH4 have been modelled operating continuously. The annual 
mean and 1 -hour mean impacts are assessed to account for 16 hours (monthly 
maintenance 12hrs and annual load test). This will be up to a maximum of 512 
hours at any one site based on HH4 having 32 generators including a pair of X1000 
generators located at Campus. 
 
- Scenario 2 (Electrical grid outage of 500 hours – the maximum number of hours 
permitted for emergency operation. All generators (minus redundancies) operate 
simultaneously across all sites). 
They made the following assumptions regarding the maintenance and operational scenarios to 
ensure a conservative assessment was undertaken: 
- All gensets were modelled at full load which is not the case for uninterruptable power 
supply (UPS) wrap round maintenance; 
- Gensets were assumed to be operating simultaneously at each site which is unlikely to 
be the case; 
- The genset suite configurations that led to the highest mass emission rates at each site 
were modelled. 
The applicant modelled site emissions for every hour in each year of assessment to ensure that 
site operations coincided with the worst case meteorological conditions. 
Following further application determination discussions, they expanded their assessment to 
include the impacts of nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5) and carbon 
monoxide (CO). The potential impact of sulphur dioxide (SO2) was not considered due to the use 
of low sulphur fuel in the generators. 