 
                       Page 13 of 32 
ensuring the required level of resilience to demonstrate maximum uptime for critical IT 
infrastructure; 
 
- Utilises an array of batteries on each site (UPS) which can provide power, virtually 
instantaneous, to the on-site systems that are critical for the operation of the site as a 
datacentre until the diesel generators are started; 
 
- Has developed multiple electrical feed connections: 
o Campus site has two 33kV feeds from the National Grid each capable of serving 
the full customer load demand at that datacentre; 
o Maylands has two 11kV feeds from the National Grid each capable of serving the 
full customer load demand at that datacentre; 
o HH4 has two 132kV feeds from the National Grid each capable of serving the full 
customer load demand at that datacentre; 
o Centro has one 11kV feed from the National Grid. 
 
- Has ensured there are no direct and dedicated power links shared between all 4 
datacentres and each datacentre has its own independent power links to the National 
Grid: 
o Campus connects to Springway Grid substation; 
o Centro connects to Hemel East Primary substation; 
o Maylands connects to Hemel North Primary substation. 
 
These three substations all connect to the Pickets End Grid substation. The Pickets End 
Grid substation has 2 separate 132kV feeds - one incoming line from Elstree-Sundon 
132KV and the other from Watford 132KV. The 2 feeds for HH4 are connected directly to 
the Elstree-Sundon 132KV power line (direct to a pylon). 
It is only failure of both 132kV power lines noted above that would trigger operation of the 
generators across all four NTT Hemel Hempstead data centre sites. Such a failure would 
impact the whole of Hemel Hempstead and wider area and the risk of their failure is 
extremely unlikely. 
Failure of the Elstree-Sundon 132kV power line would impact HH4 datacentre only. 
Failure of Pickets End substation would impact the Campus, Maylands and Centro 
datacentres. 
Failure of the Springway Grid substation would impact Campus only. 
Failure of the Hemel East Primary substation would impact Centro only. 
Failure of the Hemel North Primary substation will impact the Maylands only. 
In event of an electrical failure, the required number of generators at the datacentre or 
datacentres would operate to meet the customer load at the datacentre at that particular 
time. 
- Has arranged the datacentres into multiple customer suites which each have the required 
infrastructure, including generators: 
o Campus datacentre has twelve customer suites all independent from each other; 
o Maylands has six customer suites served by either four or two generators all 
independent from each other; 
o HH4 (original scope) has six customer suites each served by five generators 
which are independent of each other; 
o Centro has three customer suites which are linked in terms of electrical supply 
allowing four generators to serve the suites as required. 