 
                       Page 8 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
• All equipment will be maintained and operated in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s guidance and maintained in good working order. 
• Any unusual noise or vibration will be investigated immediately and 
complaints recorded, and actions taken, in accordance with procedures 
within the operator’s EMS. 
 
We have reviewed the requirement for a noise impact assessment using our 
qualitative noise screening criteria.  Based on the nature of the installation and its 
location, the limited hours of operation and the proposed noise mitigation 
measures, we anticipate that the risk of noise impacts will not be significant.   
 
Consequently we have not required a noise management plan as part of this 
determination.  However, we have included our standard noise condition in the 
variation notice, which allows us to ask for a noise management plan if we 
become aware of noise-related problems on site. 
 
 
Permit conditions  
The permit includes a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby 
operational limit’ for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits 
of the combustion activity.  Therefore, emission limit values (to air) are not 
required within the permit.  Emergency hours operation includes those unplanned 
hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure.  The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the installation 
as a whole, meaning that as soon as one generator starts operating the hours 
count towards the 500 hours. 
 
In addition, the permit allows each individual generator unit to be tested for 
maintenance.  The BAT expectation is that individual generator testing is below 
50 hours/annum.  In this instance the operator proposes to limit maintaining 
testing to 5.1 hours per year per generator; this is in line with BAT and below the 
level at which ELVs would be needed.  We expect the number of, and duration 
of, planned testing and generator operations to be minimised as much as 
possible.  The planned testing operations of the generators shall be limited to the 
maximum testing hours described in the testing schedule outlined in the 
application documents and included by reference in the Operating Techniques 
Table S1.2 of the permit. 
 
The permit does not allow voluntary / elective power generation such as for 
demand side response (i.e. on-site use), grid short term operating reserve 
(STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) or Frequency Control by Demand 
Management (FCDM) for grid support or elective onsite use of electric power, 
when this can be supplied from the grid.  This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market 
and importantly provides a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to 
air as ‘emergency plant’. 