 
                       Page 11 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
requirements of the data centre (critical IT loads and associated supporting 
infrastructure, such as cooling equipment).  The operator’s design allows for 
single generators, matched to individual power stream load demand, to activate 
in the event of a single power stream failure instead of a larger generator 
activating to accommodate a similar failure, or multiple power streams, thus 
minimising emissions.  The data centres will operate with N+1 SBGs to provide 
the required level of redundancy for resilience during maintenance.   
 
The incoming power system was designed to ensure that only the most major 
power outages would trigger the operation of the SBGs.  There are two separate 
power feeds to the site.  If either of the power feeds is unavailable due to 
damage, fault or maintenance, the on-site power system will be re-aligned 
without needing to engage the SBGs.  The site also has an uninterruptible power 
supply comprising a battery bank that provides short-term power should the input 
power source fail. 
 
Testing and maintenance will not be undertaken during peak-traffic periods e.g. 
between 16:00 to 19:00 and there will be no simultaneous testing of 2 or more 
engines.  Furthermore, testing and maintenance will be undertaken in 
accordance with the operator’s management procedure mentioned above that 
ensures no more than one generator will be operated at a time across this and 
other Virtus data centres in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and LON11 Data 
Centre). 
 
 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
The site is fully concreted, including fuel delivery areas and the two engine 
compounds.  The surface water drainage system in these areas is separate from 
the data centre building and car park surface water drainage systems.   
All three compounds discharge via interceptors with shut-off valves prior to the 
LON4 and LON4 interceptors at to enable isolation in the event of a spillage.  
LON3 and LON10 discharge to soakaway (emission points W2 and W3), LON4 
discharges directly to Thames Water’s surface water sewer (emission point W1), 
which ultimately discharges to Salt Hill Stream. 
Fuel storage areas are inspected daily, including the surfaces and pathways to 
the drains.   Delivery procedures are included in the operator’s EMS.  All 
deliveries are planned in advance, supervised and all at-risk drains are covered. 
All pipework, including the delivery point are located within a locked engine 
enclosures with a drip tray also provided within the container structure, with a 
vertical pass up to the generator enclosure.  Exceptions are at engines with end 
tanks (LON4) where aboveground pipework is visible in the short run to the 
engine container and also balancing pipework between tanks (which also 
provides the facility to pump diesel between adjacent tanks if necessary), which 
are routinely kept closed.  The fuel delivery connection points are located within a 
locked delivery housing with a drip tray also within the container structure.  Tanks 
are not filled more than 95% of capacity.  