 
                       Page 15 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Improvement programme 
We have included an improvement condition IC1 that requires the operator to 
develop an air quality management plan in conjunction with the Local Authority.  
The plan should consider and co-ordinate measures taken at other Virtus data 
centres operating in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and LON11 Data Centre). 
We have included an improvement programme (IC2) on monitoring of emissions 
(see ‘Monitoring’ section below). 
We have included improvement conditions IC3 and IC4 that require the operator 
to provide evidence that the stated generators have been remapped to comply 
with relevant emissions standards. 
We have included improvement condition IC5, which requires the operator to 
propose measures to achieve BAT compliance, to be agreed with the 
Environment Agency and implemented to an agreed timetable.  Where relevant 
the operator shall demonstrate through further air quality assessment that the 
environmental risks of the proposed measures are minimised and not significant. 
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified.  In 
particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission 
points A9 to A11 and A17 to A19 (LON4), A21 to A26 (LON3) and A27 to A32 
(LON10) (new medium combustion plant), with a minimum frequency of once 
every 1500 hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes first).  This 
monitoring has been included in the permit in order to comply with the 
requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive, which specifies the 
minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless 
of the reduced operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides from emission 
points A9 to A11 and A17 to A19 (LON4), A21 to A26 (LON3) and A27 to A32 
(LON10) (new medium combustion plant), with the same frequency specified for 
the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions.  In setting out this requirement, we 
have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited 
monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is 
proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from the 
installation.  