 
Permit number                              
EPR/BP3945QX 2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Virtus Slough Campus Data Centres  
Permit number EPR/BP3945QX 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
Virtus Slough Campus Data Centres is a new electronic data storage centre which includes back-up 
electricity generation capacity - a Schedule 1, Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) activity under the Environmental 
Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW)).   
 
The site is located in an area of light industrial and commercial developments on the Slough Trading Estate 
in Slough.  The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 95720 81330.  The nearest residential receptors 
are approximately 150 m to the north east of the site.  The following designated conservation sites are within 
relevant screening distances of the installation: Burnham Beeches Special Area of Conservation (SAC), 
Windsor Forest and Great Park SAC, Chilterns Beechwoods SAC, South West London Waterbodies Special 
Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar, as well as a number of undesignated local sites.  
 
The Campus comprises three buildings, referred to as London 3 (LON3), London 4 (LON4) and London 10 
(LON10).  At LON4 there are 19 standby generators with an aggregated capacity of 119.7 MWth (emission 
points A1 – A19).  At LON3 there are 6 standby generators with an aggregated capacity of 28.3 MWth 
(emission points A21 to A26).  At LON10 there are 6 standby generators with an aggregated capacity of 
32.5 MWth (emission points A27 to A32).  The total aggregated capacity of all 31 generators at the 
installation is 180.5 MWth.  The generators run on ultra-low sulphur gas oil and discharge emissions to air 
via individual stacks ranging in height from 10 to 16 metres.  The main emissions to air are oxides of 
nitrogen.   
 
Under normal operation, electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid and the 
combustion plant operates only for limited routine maintenance.  The generators are tested one at a time to 
minimise air quality impact, at 0% load for 15 minutes per month, for eleven months of the year.  Every year 
the generators are also subject to an additional test, undertaken during the twelfth month of the year. The 
annual test consists of running the engines sequentially at 100% load for 20 minutes, then reducing to 75% 
load for 120 minutes.  The testing scenarios total 5.1 hours of operation per generat or per year and 157.5 
hours of operation in total per year.  The operator has provided a management procedure that applies to this 
and other Virtus data centres in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and LON11 Data Centre) and ensures that 
during testing and maintenance, only one generator will be operated at a time. 
 
In the event of a failure of the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain power to 
the data centre.  The generators will be used solely for the purpose of providing a back-up power supply, 
with no electricity being exported from the installation.   
 
Each generator has a dedicated fuel tank with a capacity of around 25,000 to 30,000 litres per tank.  The 
tanks are integrally bunded steel tanks designed to provide 110% containment, fitted with leak detection, 
level gauges, overfill prevention valves and high and low-level alarms.  
 
The site is covered in concrete hardstanding, with uncontaminated surface water from the three generator 
compounds discharging via the surface water drainage system. The run-off will pass through an interceptor 
prior to discharging to soakaway (LON3 and LON10) or surface water sewer (LON4).  
 