 
                       Page 7 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
• for the testing scenarios, PCs are less than 10% of the daily NOX CLe 
at designated ecological receptors and below 100% of the CLe for local 
conservation sites.  
• for the theoretical emergency scenario, the daily NOX CLe is exceeded 
at several local nature sites (E2, E3, E4 and E6), although the operator 
refers to the theoretical nature of the emergency scenario, which is not 
expected to occur each year. 
We are satisfied that the applicant’s air dispersion modelling assessment is 
conservative and we agree with the applicant’s conclusions regarding human 
health and ecological impacts for all testing and the emergency scenarios.  
We agree that the emergency scenario is presented as a theoretical worst-case 
and is not permitted as a normal operation.  It is representative of an emergency 
operation allowed to happen only in the unlikely event of failure of electrical 
supply from the grid.  Measures are in place at the site to prevent and 
manage/mitigate the occurrence of this emergency operation.  The primary 
prevention measure relied upon to avoid this emergency scenario occurring is the 
highly reliable design of the electrical grid and of the site connections to it 
(described in the BAT section below).  The requirement to run the back-up 
generators in an emergency is therefore minimised as far as possible and a 72-
hour outage scenario is considered highly unlikely.   
Based on the information reviewed, we consider that aerial emissions associated 
with operations of the proposed installation are not likely to cause exceedances 
of the applicable human health environmental standards nor affect any site of 
nature conservation and protected species or habitats identified. 
 
 
Noise  
 
The site will only run the generators regularly as part of the testing regimes 
described earlier, occurring during daytime hours.  Overnight operation of the 
generators will only occur in an emergency situation.  As this is a new installation 
it is not possible to consider the likelihood of overnight operation by examining 
the frequency of historical outages, but the potential for prolonged power outages 
in the area is considered to be low. 
 
The operator has confirmed that the following measures will be in place to reduce 
the potential for noise impacts outside of the site boundary: 
 
• The generators will be housed within noise insulated steel containers. 
• Engine exhaust silencers are positioned in the exhaust stacks. 
• Acoustic louvered walls surround the generator compound area. 