 
                       Page 5 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
The ADMS Version 5.2.4 software dispersion model was used to predict 
atmospheric concentrations of the identified pollutants; we accept that the use of 
this model is appropriate for these circumstances. 
Three different operating scenarios were modelled. Two scenarios, Virtus Test 1 
and Virtus Test 2, represent routine testing operations. A further scenario, Virtus 
Emergency 2, represents emergency situations where there is a loss of electrical 
power.  The operating scenarios are summarised below: 
• Virtus Test 1 – this is representative of a 15 minute “switch on” offload test 
(modelled at 10% load as there is no emissions data for zero load); to be 
carried out monthly for eleven months of the year, i.e. 2.75 hours per 
generator per year.  The operator anticipates that in reality the test will be 
limited to approximately 5 minutes only. 
• V irtus Test 2  – this is representative of a full service onload test consisting 
of an initial 20 minutes at 100% load followed immediately by 120 minutes 
at 75% load; to be carried out once per year, i.e. 2.3 hours per generator 
per year. 
• V irtus Emergency 2  – this represents a theoretical complete mains 
electricity failure of 72 hours duration per year.  In this scenario there is an 
initial period of 20-30 minutes where generators are required to run at 
100% load, to recharge the UPS battery array before dropping to the 
actual load required, designed to be around 60 - 100% depending on the 
data centre.  Based on Ofgem grid operator outage data and on-site 
outage worst case estimates, the consultant states the operator’s 
calculated average annual operation emergency scenario assumed a 
power outage occurs once in every five or six years for 24 hours. 
Therefore, a 72 hour outage is considered highly conservative.  In this 
scenario all 31 generators operate simultaneously and continuously for 72 
hours, i.e. 72 hours of operation per generator in total. 
The operator considered continuous monitoring and diffusion tube measurements 
in the vicinity of the site and used the highest background concentration from the 
closest background monitoring locations in the assessment.  Where relevant, 
background concentrations at ecological receptors have been derived from the 
UK Air Pollution Information System (APIS) database. 
We have audited the air dispersion modelling assessment report and 
supplementary Technical Note and carried out check modelling and sensitivity 
analysis.  We reviewed the selection of modelling inputs, modelling methodology 
and assumptions, selection and distribution of receptors, the outputs of the 
modelling exercise, statistical interpretation of modelling outputs and conclusions 
of the assessment.  
The operator’s assessment concludes that no significant effects are likely at 
human health and ecological receptors.  We note that the operator did not assess 
annual NO
2 or nitrogen monoxide (NO) against the relevant Environmental 
Assessment Levels (EALs).  