 
                       Page 4 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Air Quality  
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-
emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-environmental-permit) an d the relevant parts 
of the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/specified-g enerators-
dispersion-modelling-assessment )  the applicant submitted detailed air dispersion 
modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on human 
receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-
environmental-permit. 
The applicant’s assessment of the impact of emissions to air is detailed in 
application document titled ‘Virtus Slough Campus: London 3, London 4, London 
10 Data Centres Air Quality Assessment’, ref: 70092911 AQ02 First issue dated 
30/08/2022, supplemented by the applicant’s response to our request for 
information dated 14/10/2022, which was received by the Environment Agency 
on 04/11/2022 and which includes a ‘Technical Note’ ref: 70092911, dated 
04/11/2022. 
The primary pollutants of concern that have been assessed by the applicant are 
nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) using emissions data from 
manufacturer’s data sheets.  The applicant used a statistical analysis 
methodology to determine the likelihood of the worst predicted emissions from 
the operations of the standby emergency plant coinciding with the worst 
meteorological hours over the modelled operating envelope, and subsequently 
causing a breach of the short-term Environmental Standard (ES) for NO
2 for 
more than 18 hours in a year, corresponding to the 99.79th percentile 
specification for the short-term NO2 ES.  The statistical analysis was based on 
the hypergeometric probability distribution and followed the methodology set out 
in our web guidance on dispersion modelling assessment for generators
. 
The applicant scoped out the impacts of particulate matter, explaining that this is 
due in part to low emissions (stating that emissions of particulate matter from the 
diesel generators are typically two orders of magnitude lower than NOx 
emissions at equivalent load) and in part to the low operating and emergency 
hours in the year.  We accept the operator’s approach.  Based on particulate 
emissions data provided in the technical data sheets submitted with the 
application, we agree that the total operational hours and emergency running 
period will not be long enough to cause exceedances of the relevant ES.   
Impacts from sulphur dioxide (SO
2) have also not been assessed; the plant will 
run on ultra-low sulphur gas oil.  We have included a condition in the permit 
restricting the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil.  