 
                       Page 17 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the 
guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to grant this 
permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible.  For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth.  The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above.  The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations 
and our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have 
considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: Public Health England  
Brief summary of issues raised: recommendation that dispersion modelling 
considers impacts of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and particulate matter. 
Summary of actions taken: 
As described in more detail in the Air Quality section above, we have audited the 
air dispersion modelling and assessment the applicant submitted with the 