 
                       Page 3 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation.  
The generators are subject to a routine maintenance testing schedule -  each 
generator is tested one at time to minimise air quality impact, at 0% load for 15 
minutes per month, for eleven months of the year.  Every year the generators are 
also subject to an additional test, undertaken during the twelfth month of the year.  
The annual test consists of running the engines sequentially at 100% load for 20 
minutes, then reducing to 75% load for 120 minutes.  The testing scenarios total 
5.1 hours of operation per generator per year and 157.5 hours of operation in 
total per year.  Furthermore, the operator has provided a management procedure 
that applies to this and other Virtus data centres in the locality (LON9 Data 
Centre and LON11 Data Centre) and ensures that during testing and 
maintenance, only one generator is to be worked on at any one time if the 
generator is required to run.  The procedure is included in Table S1.2 (Operating 
Techniques) of the permit. 
 
Each of the SBGs runs on ultra-low sulphur gas oil fuel, although alternative fuels 
that can be demonstrated to have an equivalent or lower environmental impact 
may be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency as they become available.   
Each generator has a dedicated, above ground fuel tank either situated at one 
end of each engine/genset container (LON4), or configured as a ‘belly tank’ 
(LON3 and LON10), with sufficient fuel for 48 hours run time at emergency (near 
full) load, in a range of tank sizes from around 25,000 to 30,000 litres per tank.   
 
The fuel tanks installed are integrally bunded steel tanks fitted with a level probe 
and gauge, overfill prevention valve, high-and low-level alarms and bund alarms 
to alert of leaks between the two skins of the storage tanks.   
The tanks are inspected externally on a daily basis for signs of corrosion and are 
subject to 5 yearly empty tank inspections. 
A fuel polishing unit, comprising a filter to remove particulates and water, is fixed 
to each tank and is operated to minimise wastage by maintaining the quality of 
the fuel during long periods of storage and non-use.   
The tanks are protected by vehicle movement impact barriers and/or are 
positioned on raised concrete plinths.  The site is engineered to slope to the 
drainage system, interceptor and control valve. 
The operator’s EMS includes procedures for supervised fuel delivery (which 
includes covering of at-risk drains and provision of spill kits) and management of 
spills and leaks.  A spill response exercise is undertaken routinely to test the 
procedure. 