 
                       Page 16 of 18 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
As the applicant has not planned the installation of suitable monitoring ports at 
the present, on the assumption that no monitoring would be required by the 
permit, we have included an improvement condition (IC2) requiring the operator 
to submit for approval an emissions monitoring plan demonstrating that 
appropriate sample locations are included in the design of the generators.   
We have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 4 months of 
the issue date of the permit or the date when each new medium combustion plant 
is first put into operation, whichever is later. 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is being 
operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to ensure that 
we are notified immediately in the instance that the site ever operates in 
emergency scenario mode. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The site is operated in accordance with the operator’s ISO 14001 accredited 
Environmental Management System. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Previous performance 
We have assessed operator competence.  There is no known reason to consider 
the applicant will not comply with the permit conditions. 
No relevant convictions were found. The operator satisfies the criteria in our 
guidance on operator competence. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able 
to comply with the permit conditions. 