 
Permit number                            
EPR/CP3042QG      2 
GB One Data Centre  
Permit number EPR/CP3042QG 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is a data centre which consists of an Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) Schedule 1 listed 
activity: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1) (a) for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW). 
The combustion plant comprises 21 x 8.877 MWth gas oil fuelled standby generators, with an aggregated 
total combustion capacity on-site of approximately 186.417 MWth. The gas oil generators are solely used to 
provide standby electricity generation capacity to power the data centre in the event of a grid power failure. 
The data centre is operational 24 hours/day, 7 days/week and the electricity supply arrangements for the site 
include two 33KV feeds from the National Grid, either of which can serve the ‘cust omer load’. The facility 
also has the opportunity of utilising Slough Heat and Power electricity power station nearby. This provides 
power to the wider Slough Estate, in addition to the local generator capacity within the data  centre. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000 mg/m3. 
The operator has confirmed that the 21 generators to be used at the data centre are emissions optimised 2g-
TA Luft or US EPA tier 2 or equivalent. Additionally, an SCR NOx abatement system is installed, which 
reduces the NOx air emissions per generator from 1493 mg/Nm3 to 190 mg/Nm3. 
Each generator will be housed within proprietary steel container units located outside each block. The data 
centre is designed with a total of 3 blocks which operate independently. Each of these blocks has 7 
generators operating on an n+1 arrangement to allow each block to be operated by separate clients, though 
all 7 generators could be simultaneously operational if required. In the event of an electrical failure the 
required number of generators at the data centre would operate to meet the customer load at that particular 
time. The n+1 arrangement for each data centre block means that in the event of power loss, all 7 generators 
would start up. As the customer load was met, generators would disengage sequentially to the level of 
demand. Should a generator fail, the backup (+1) generator would engage. During the normal operations of 
the site, the generators are only run for maintenance and testing, according to a specified testing schedule  
incorporated into table S1.2 of the permit. No electricity is exported from the installation. 
The gas oil fuel is stored in day (belly) tanks which are integral to the individual generator and have been 
designed in line with current standards and are bunded (110% capacity) to meet the Control of Pollution (Oil 
Storage) (England) Regulations 2001. The day tanks are filled directly from 6 bulk storage gas oil tanks on 
site. The day tanks are fed through underground lines from the bulk tank farm. The 21-day tanks store 
approximately 1,000 litres of fuel each. The 6 bulk fuel storage tanks store approximately 155,000 litres of 
fuel each. The total capacity for gas oil storage on this site is 951,000 litres.   
The external bulk fuel tanks which are located on the bulk tank farm are designed in line with current 
standards, they have a bund capacity of at least 110% of the largest container to meet the Control of 
Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001. Alarms, leak detection and overpressure valves are also 
installed on the tanks. Gas oil fuel is pumped from the external tanks to the day tanks via a flexible, double -
walled composite piping system with leak detection.  
The bulk tank farm is replenished from deliveries of gas oil from tankers to the site. The tanker unloading bay 
is an engineered concrete area which drains to a central point, where a sealed collection sump is present for 
use in the event of a spill during delivery.  