 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 8 of 26 
• Windsor Forest & Great Park (SAC) 
• South West London Waterbodies (Special Protection Areas (SPA)) 
• South West London Waterbodies (Ramsar Site) 
 
and the following local sites: 
Local Nature Reserves (LNR): 
• Haymill Valley 
 
Local Wildlife Sites (LWS): 
• Railway Triangle (off Stranraer Gardens)  
• Haymill Valley  
• Jubilee River and Dorney Wetlands  
The data centre is not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA), but there are AQMAs 
within 2km of the site. The closest AQMA is Slough AQMA No. 3 Extension. This is located 347m 
south east of the data centre. 
The operator assessed three scenarios: 
Scenario 1: Routine maintenance/ testing - As part of the testing and maintenance regime, the 
generators will be tested monthly for an hour, totalling 12 hours per year per generator . The 
annual mean and 1-hour mean impacts of the 21 generators have been modelled for 12 hours of 
routine testing and maintenance per generator. The 1-hour mean has been assessed by 
assuming constant operation of each bank of generators separately as tested monthly in groups 
of three or four. 
An email from the operator dated 21st June 2023 confirmed that the generators will be tested 
individually for 30 minutes every fortnight, and that the modelling was done in banks of three and 
four to provide a conservative assessment. However, the emission rate for 30 minutes of testing 
is greater than the emission rate for an hour of testing as a higher proportion of time is unabated.  
Scenario 2: Electrical grid outage of 24 hours - All generators (minus redundancies) operate 
simultaneously across the site for 24 hours. 
Scenario 3: Electrical grid outage of 72 hours - All generators (minus redundancies) operate 
simultaneously across the site for 72 hours (worst case scenario). 
They made the following assumptions regarding the maintenance and operational scenarios to 
ensure a conservative assessment was undertaken: 
• The assessment of short-term impacts assumes constant operation of the plant in banks 
of three or four across a range of meteorological conditions. 
 
• The results presented are the maxima from modelling with five separate years of 
meteorological data. 
 
• The results presented are the maxima from modelling both with and without including 
surrounding buildings within the dispersion model. 
 
• The assessment assumes that the SCR technology takes 15 minutes to be fully effective . 
 
• The assessment has considered ammonia slip, assuming an emission concentration of 
10 mg/Nm3, however, the manufacturers have guaranteed that there will be no ammonia 
slip. 
 