 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 4 of 26 
• Independence of off-system services 
• Causing the least environmental impact 
 
The operator demonstrated there were significant reasons for not selecting gas turbines, aero 
engine gas turbines and gas engines. Aero engine gas turbines, gas engines and diesel engines 
all provided the fast response speed required but the diesel engines had a significantly greater 
environmental impact than the gas turbines and engines. 
Fuel 
The operator further justified the choice of low sulphur diesel over gas as a fuel for the engines 
because it allowed the required level of resilience at the data centres. The storage of sufficient 
gas on-site as a fuel source was not possible due to restraints on available space. Additionally, 
there were increased health and safety risks associated with such storage. There would be  a 
reliance on an off-site supply of gas, which would have to be provided to the sites via a pipeline 
operated and maintained by a third party. Should this supply of gas be interrupted there would be 
no emergency back-up generation for the sites, and as such would not meet the resilience 
requirements of the facilities. 
From the options considered, the operator therefore demonstrated that low sulphur diesel 
engines were BAT to provide emergency/ standby power for the data centre on the basis that: 
• The engines provide a fast response speed to the required load (fast start-up of standby 
generators for data centres is fundamental to their operation as an almost instantaneous 
supply of electricity is required in the event of power loss to the site). 
 
• The need for a reliable supply of fuel (diesel) is essential to ensure resilience (the on-site 
storage of sufficient quantities of diesel fuel provides the required level of independent 
performance reliability on site). 
 
• Diesel engines have low maintenance costs and replacement parts are readily available.  
 
Email received on 11/08/2023 advising Environment Agency of change of fuel. Operator to use 
both diesel and HVO fuel in back-up generators. This change was agreed by us on 14/08/2023. 
NOx emissions are similar to diesel, but CO2 and particulates would be lower. 
Based on this assessment and the fact that diesel or equivalent fuel generators are presently a 
commonly used technology for standby generators in data centres (Emergency backup diesel 
engines on installations: best available techniques (BAT) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) we accept 
that low sulphur diesel or equivalent fuel fired generators can be considered BAT.   
Managing emissions 
Point Source Emissions to Air 
The operator has taken measures to minimise emissions from the diesel or equivalent fuel 
generators both in emergency and test/ maintenance operation.  
The Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach v21 specifies the BAT emissions specification for new 
diesel-fired reciprocating engines as 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard). This is the European 
standard that we have concluded that we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   