 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 23 of 26 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of NOx from emission points A1 to A21 (new 
MCP), with the same frequency specified for the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In 
setting out this requirement, we have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this 
limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is 
proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the installation, and 
the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and carbon monoxide, we consider this 
monitoring can be carried out in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs 
and specified generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5).  
We have set an improvement condition (IC2) requesting the operator to submit a monitoring plan 
for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s proposal for the implementation 
of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in the permit. The improvement condition is 
applicable to all data centre permits which include new MCP, unless the application includes a 
monitoring proposal that already meets the requirements of table S3.1.  
We have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 4 months of the issue date of 
the permit or the date when each new medium combustion plant is first put into operation, 
whichever is later. 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the standards specified 
in the Operating Techniques including the reporting of emissions to air. 
We have specified reporting to ensure the operator notifies us of any operation of the stand -by 
generators in emergency mode in response to national grid power outage. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the management 
system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator competence and how to 
develop a management system for environmental permits. 
Previous performance 
We have assessed operator competence. There is no known reason to consider the operator will 
not comply with the permit conditions. 
We have checked our systems to ensure that all relevant convictions have been declared. 
No relevant convictions were found. The operator satisfies the criteria in our guidance on operator 
competence. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able to com ply with 
the permit conditions. 