 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 22 of 26 
Raw materials/ fuels 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of fuel. 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include pre -operational 
conditions. The following pre-operational conditions have been included in the permit: 
1 - which requires the operator to submit a written watching brief report to the Environment 
Agency for assessment and written approval. The report must contain, but not necessarily be 
limited to information on the condition of the land during the demolition and construction phases, 
particularly in the area of the historical tanks. This report should be submitted 4 weeks before 
operation commences. We have included this pre-operational condition to satisfy ourselves that 
there was no contamination encountered during the demolition and construction phases under 
the watching brief, anywhere on site including the area of the former tanks.  
2 - which requires the operator to undertake a review of all bunds at the site and submit a written 
report to the Environment Agency for assessment and written approval. The review shall be 
carried out by a qualified structural engineer and compare all bunds against the standards set out 
in CIRIA guidance: Containment systems for the prevention of pollution (C736). The report must 
contain the findings and recommendations of the review including timescales for implementation 
of any improvements identified, and a maintenance and inspection regime. This review should be 
submitted 4 weeks before operation commences. We have included this pre-operational condition 
to satisfy ourselves that the fuel tank bunding is fit for purpose. 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include an improvement 
programme. The following improvement conditions (ICs) have been included in the permit:  
IC1 which requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP)  following 
our template in conjunction with the Local Authority outlining measures to be taken in the event of 
a National Grid failure. 
IC2 which requires the operator to submit a monitoring plan for approval by the Environment 
Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements 
specified in Table S3.1, in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and 
specified generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed in the permit, 
using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission points A1 to A21 
(new MCP), with a minimum frequency of once every 1500 hours of operation or every five years 
(whichever comes first). This monitoring has been included in the permit in order to comply with 
the requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD), which specifies the minimum 
requirements form monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced operating 
hours of the plant. 