 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 7 of 26 
The long term 1% PC insignificance threshold is based on the judgements that:  
• It is unlikely that an emission at this level will make a significant contribution to air quality;  
• The threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and the environment.  
 
The short term 10% PC insignificance threshold is based on the judgements that:  
• Spatial and temporal conditions mean that short term process contributions are transient 
and limited in comparison with long term process contributions;  
• The threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and the environment.  
 
Where an emission is screened out in this way, we would normally consider that the operator’s 
proposals for the prevention and control of the emission to be BAT. That is because if the impact 
of the emission is already insignificant, it follows that any further reduction in this emission will 
also be insignificant. 
However, where an emission cannot be screened out as insignificant, it does not mean it will 
necessarily be significant. 
For those pollutants which do not screen out as insignificant, we determine whether exceedances 
of the relevant ES are likely. This is done through detailed audit and review of the operator’s air 
dispersion modelling taking background concentrations (Process Contribution + Background 
Concentration = Predicted Environmental Concentration (PEC)) and modelling uncertainties into 
account. Where an exceedance of an AAD limit value is identified, we may require the operator to 
go beyond what would normally be considered BAT for the Installation or we may refuse the 
application if the operator is unable to provide suitable proposals. Whether or not exceedances 
are considered likely, the application is subject to the requirement to operate in accordance with 
BAT. 
This is not the end of the risk assessment, because we also take into account local factors (for 
example, particularly sensitive receptors nearby such as a SSSIs, SACs or SPAs). These 
additional factors may also lead us to include more stringent conditions than BAT.   
If, as a result of reviewing of the risk assessment and taking account of any additional techniques 
that could be applied to limit emissions, we consider that emissions would cause significant 
pollution, we would refuse the Application. 
Operator’s assessment of potential impact on air quality: 
The operator submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment which considered the potential 
impacts of the principal pollutants of concern with respect to emissions to air from low sulphur 
diesel oil generators. The principal pollutants of concern are nitrogen dioxide (NO2) on human 
health and nitrogen oxides (NOx) and nutrient and acid nitrogen deposition on ecological 
receptors within the defined screening distances. However, as the generators will be installed 
with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology to control the NOx emissions; th e 
assessment also considered the potential for emissions of ammonia (NH3) associated with 
slippage. 
They considered 12 human health receptors including residential properties, gyms, schools and 
day nurseries. 
They considered the following protected European sites: 
• Burnham Beeches (Special Area of Conservation (SAC)) 