 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 21 of 26 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on site condition reports and baseline 
reporting under the Industrial Emissions Directive. 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the screening distances 
we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations. The application is within our screening distances for these 
designations.  
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations identified in the nature 
conservation screening report as part of the permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any site of nature conservation, landscape and 
heritage, and/or protected species or habitats identified. 
We have not consulted Natural England  
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with the relevant 
guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate techniques for the facility. 
The operating techniques that the operator must use are specified in table S1.2 in the 
environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as insignificant 
Emissions of oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, particulate matter and 
ammonia have been screened out as insignificant, and so we agree that the operator’s proposed 
techniques are Best Available Techniques (BAT) for the installation. 
We consider that the emission limits included in the installation permit reflect the BAT for the 
sector. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by the National 
Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit values in line with technical 
guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will aid the delivery of national air quality 
targets. We do not consider that we need to include any additional conditions in this permit. 