 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 5 of 26 
The operator has confirmed that the 21 generators that will be operated at the data centre in will 
be Kohler KD4500-E engines, and that these engines will conform to emissions standards ‘TA-luft 
2g’ or Tier II USEPA. 
The Data Centre FAQ states v21 that Tier II USEPA is the minimum appropriate for new 
generators, as such the KD4500-E are considered to be compliant to deliver NOx releases of no 
greater than 2,000 mg/m3. Additionally, an SCR NOx abatement system is installed, which 
reduces the NOx air emissions per generator from 1493 mg/Nm3 to 190 mg/Nm3.  
Aqueous Releases from Sites 
The data centre has separate foul and surface water drainage systems.  
Point Source Emissions to Foul Sewer 
The operator has confirmed that the Installation will be connected to the public foul sewerage 
network operated by Thames Water Limited and that there are no cesspits or septic systems 
present on site. The operator has confirmed that all discharges to foul sewer will comprise only 
sanitary effluent from domestic facilities present on site and no process effluent will be generated. 
The operation of the data centre does not result in the generation of trade effluent. 
Point Source Emissions to Surface Water 
The operator has confirmed that the Installation will be connected to the public surface water 
drainage sewer network operated by Thames Water Limited.  
 
The surface water drainage system at the data centre will accept surface water runoff from the 
permitted area (standby generators and diesel or equivalent fuel storage areas). Surface water 
runoff collected will drain via oil interceptors. 
 
Following the interceptors, the surface water runoff will discharge into soakaways and then off-
site into the public surface water drainage system operated by Thames Water Limited , the 
connection for which is in Ajax Avenue. The surface water point source discharge points into this 
connection are referenced as SW1, SW2 and SW3 on the Plan in Schedule 7 of the permit. The 
surface water drainage discharges to unnamed surface water ditches and ultimately into the 
Jubilee River, a tributary of the River Thames. 
 
Discharges to surface water include: 
• Uncontaminated rainwater from roof areas. 
• Uncontaminated runoff from paved yard and car parking areas. 
• Uncontaminated water from the oily water interceptor associated with the tanker loading 
bay. 
There are 3 oil/ water interceptors at the site. The main interceptor covering the area of the tank 
farm, loading bay and surrounding hardstanding is a Class 1 full retention interceptor with an oil 
capacity of 10,000 litres. This interceptor has a shut off valve which is automatically triggered by 
the oil probe in the interceptor. 
Areas of hard surfacing away from the tank farm and loading bay are discharged through a 
separate surface water system which discharges through Class 1 bypass interceptors with an oil 
capacity of 60 litres. These 2 lower risk interceptors are alarmed (linked to the data centre control 
centre) but do not have valves present.  
The interceptors will be emptied, cleaned and maintained regularly. Drainage systems will be 
maintained in good condition and regularly cleaned/ inspected to prevent blockages . 
Monitoring of the surface water discharges from the data centre is not considered necessary 
given the planned preventative maintenance system which includes regular emptying and 
maintenance of the oily water interceptor. 