 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 12 of 26 
Protection against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation 
The largest risk of gaseous emissions from the site occurring which could impact human health or 
ecological receptors would be if the diesel or equivalent fuel generators had to operate for any 
significant period of time following a National Grid failure. 
To address this scenario and minimise emissions, the operator: 
• Has designed the data centre with a total of 3 blocks which operate independently. Each 
of these blocks has 7 generators operating on an n+1 arrangement to allow each block to 
be operated by separate clients, though all 7 generators could be simultaneously 
operational if required. 
 
• Has designed the data centre so that in the event of an electrical failure the required 
number of generators at the data centre would operate to meet the customer load at that 
particular time. 
 
• Has designed the data centre so that the n+1 arrangement for each data centre block 
means that in the event of power loss, all 7 generators would start up. As the customer 
load was met, generators would disengage sequentially to the level of demand. Should a 
generator fail, the backup (+1) generator would engage. 
 
• Utilises an array of batteries in each block, uninterruptable power supply (UPS). These 
battery arrays can provide almost instantaneous electrical power in the event of a loss of 
site electrical feed. Sufficient UPS capacity is in place to provide operation of the data  
centre while the generators are brought online. 
 
• Has developed multiple electrical feed connections. The electricity supply arrangements 
for the site include two 33KV feeds from the National Grid, either of which can serve the 
‘customer load’. 
 
• Has developed automated systems which detect fluctuations in the electrical supply to 
the site, where such events could negatively impact data centre operation then the UPS 
can be automatically utilised, and generators brought online as required. 
 
• Has the opportunity of utilising Slough Heat and Power electricity power station nearby. 
This provides power to the wider Slough Estate, in addition to the local generator capacity 
within the data centre. 
 
• Maintains robust site security systems such as security fencing to restrict access and will 
have secure access arrangements to minimise the risk of any form of unauthorised 
access that could affect operation and cause the need for the generators to be operated.  
The data centre will also be manned 24 hours a day by facilities management personnel. 
 
Containment and Prevention of Pollution to Ground, Surface water and 
Groundwater 
Fuel Storage, Distribution and Containment 
The operator has demonstrated that there are robust systems in place for the containment of fuel.  
Diesel or equivalent fuel will be stored at the data centre in day (belly) tanks which are integral to 
the individual generator. Fuel storage - There are 21-day tanks on site and each stores 
approximately 1,000 litres of fuel. Therefore, there is a total of 21,000 litres of fuel (21 generators 
@ 1,000 litres = 21,000 litres) stored in the day tanks. 