 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 11 of 26 
cause or contribute to exceedances of the relevant ES at human health receptors for the testing 
and emergency scenarios. 
Testing Scenario 1 modelled by the operator is different to the testing scenario the operator is 
proposing to follow at the facility. Therefore, the results of the operator’s modelling are likely to 
over-predict the hourly NO2 PCs, and underpredict the annual NO2 PCs. We have modelled both 
testing scenarios, with a focus on Testing Scenario 2. 
We find: 
• Testing Scenarios - The PCs are above the insignificance criteria of 10% for hourly NO2. 
PECs are unlikely to exceed 100% of the ES for Testing Scenario 2, when the generators 
are tested individually. If the generators are tested in banks of three or four, as described 
by Testing Scenario 1, PECs could exceed 100%. Using a probability analysis, 
hypergeometric distribution, we predict the probability of an exceedance of the hourly 
mean NO2 ES is less than 1% and that exceedances are highly unlikely.  
 
• Emergency Scenarios - The PCs are above the insignificance criteria of 10% for ST NO2, 
NO2 AEGL-1 and ST NO. We predict that only the PECs for ST NO2 have the potential 
to exceed the ES. Our probability analysis indicates that exceedances of the hourly mean 
NO2 ES are unlikely for this scenario, based on a worst-case 72-hour operational period.  
 
• Annual Mean - NO2 PCs from both testing scenarios are ‘insignificant’. Annual mean 
NO2 PCs from the emergency and testing scenarios combined are ‘not insignificant’. 
PECs are likely to exceed the ES if a 72-hour grid failure was to occur, although historical 
grid reliability data shows that is unlikely. 
 
Habitats Assessment 
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the operator’s numerical 
predictions, the outcome of our checks indicates that the PCs from the facility are unlikely to 
cause or contribute to exceedances of the relevant ES at ecological receptors for the testing and 
emergency scenarios. 
We find: 
• Testing Scenarios - Unlikely to make a significant contribution or cause an exceedance of 
any critical loads and levels at ecological receptors. 
 
• Emergency Scenario - Unlikely to make a significant contribution to or cause an 
exceedance of the NOx annual critical level, NH3 annual critical level or the nutrient 
nitrogen and acid deposition critical loads. We cannot rule out an exceedance of the daily 
mean NOx critical levels of 75 μg/m3 and 200 μg/m3 at the Railway Triangle LWS as a 
result of 72 hours of emergency operation. However, we consider the likelihood of 
exceedances occurring as a result of a major grid failure to be low on the basis that 
historical data indicates that power outages have been rare. 
 
• We consider exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level to be unlikely, provided the 
grid reliability at the facility remains high. 
We agree with the operator’s overall conclusions that the site is unlikely to cause an exceedance 
of an ES at human health receptors and is unlikely to make a significant contribution to or cause 
an exceedance of any critical loads and levels at ecological receptors. 
 