 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 6 of 26 
Point Source Emissions to Land 
The operator has confirmed that there will be point source emissions to land from the Installation 
in the form of soakaways. 
There are 3 soakaways present at the installation beneath the southern car parking areas. The 
soakaway point source discharge points are referenced as SL1, SL2 and SL3 on the Plan in 
Schedule 7 of the permit 
The “milk crate” type soakaways are situated between the 3 interceptors and the final outfall to 
the public surface water drainage network on Ajax Avenue. 
The soakaways are plastic crates with a geotextile liner between the crates and the surrounding 
gravel fill. The system is required to slow the release of surface water to the surface water sewer 
system. The soakaways will not require maintenance. Given their cellular structure it would be 
difficult to insert a drainage camera. 
As the operator has confirmed that no process effluent or contaminated emissions would be 
discharged from the site to sewer or surface water drainage, we accept that Application Form B6 
and consultation with our water quality specialists is not needed. 
Air Quality 
For combustion applications, we normally require the operator to submit a full air dispersion 
model as part of their application. Air dispersion modelling enables the process contribution (PC) 
to be predicted at any environmental receptor that might be impacted by the plant.  
Once short term (ST) and long term (LT) PCs have been calculated in this way, they are 
compared with Environmental Standards (ES). ES are described in our web guide ‘Air emissions 
risk assessment for your environmental permit’.  
Our web guide sets out the relevant ES as: 
• Ambient Air Directive Limit Values 
• Ambient Air Directive and 4th Daughter Directive Target Values 
• UK Air Quality Strategy Objectives 
• Environmental Assessment Levels 
 
Where an Ambient Air Directive (AAD) Limit Value exists, the relevant standard is the AAD Limit 
Value. Where an AAD Limit Value does not exist, AAD target values, UK Air Quality Strategy 
(AQS) Objectives or Environmental Assessment Levels (EALs) are used. Our web guide sets out 
EALs which have been derived to provide a similar level of protection to Human Health and  the 
Environment as the AAD limit values, AAD target and AQS objectives. In a very small number of 
cases, e.g., for emissions of lead, the AQS objective is more stringent that the AAD value. In such 
cases, we use the AQS objective for our assessment. 
AAD target values, AQS objectives and EALs do not have the same legal status as AAD limit 
values, and there is no explicit requirement to impose stricter conditions than BAT in order to 
comply with them. However, they are a standard for harm and any significant contribution to a 
breach is likely to be unacceptable. 
PCs are screened out as Insignificant if: 
• The long-term PC is less than 1% of the relevant ES; and 
• The short-term PC is less than 10% of the relevant ES. 
 