 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 9 of 26 
• For the emergency loss-of-offsite power scenarios, the assessment assumes that every 
hour includes 15 minutes of unabated emissions, whereas in reality, this will only be the 
case for the very first hour. 
 
• Depletion has not been included in the model. This will cause a tendency for impacts to 
be over-predicted. 
 
• A conservative approach has been taken to calculating NO2 concentrations from 
modelled NOx concentrations. 
 
Their conclusions were: 
Impact on Human Health Receptors 
Scenario 1: Routine maintenance/ testing 
• Annual Mean - The PCs are all less than 1% of the long-term AQS; the PCs are, 
therefore, insignificant. There is thus negligible risk that the NO2 annual mean AQS will 
be exceeded as a result of routine testing and maintenance of the generators. On this 
basis, the long-term effects are considered to be not significant.  
 
• 1 Hour Mean - Assuming continuous operation, the PC exceeds 10% of the short -term 
AQS at all specific receptor locations; however, the PECs will remain below the AQS at 
the majority of receptors. At Receptor R12 (Astoria Heights Apartments on A355) where 
the PEC exceeds the AQS, the probability of an exceedance, assuming that the testing 
regime takes place across 72 hours (six banks of generators, each being tested for one 
hour every month), is calculated to be less than 1%. The Environment Agency guidance 
is, therefore, that a risk of an exceedance is highly unlikely.  
 
• Based on the regular testing and maintenance programme, there is negligible risk that the 
AQS will be exceeded as a result of the facility. 
 
Scenario 2: Electrical grid outage of 24 hours 
• 1 Hour Mean - Assuming continuous operation for 24 hours as a result of an emergency 
loss of power scenario, the PECs exceed the AQS at the majority of receptors.  
 
• Assuming a 24-hour scenario, the probability of an exceedance is calculated to be less 
than 1% at all specific receptors, equivalent to an exceedance less than once every 100 
years. The Environment Agency guidance is, therefore, that a risk of an exceedance is 
highly unlikely.  
 
• An exceedance of the hourly AQS is considered unlikely during a 24-hour loss-of-offsite 
power scenario.  
 
Scenario 3: Electrical grid outage of 72 hours 
• 1 Hour Mean - Assuming continuous operation for 72 hours as a result of an emergency 
loss of power scenario, the PECs exceed the AQS at the majority of receptors.  
 
• Assuming a 72-hour scenario, the probabilities of an exceedance are greater than for the 
24-hour scenario; however, for the majority of receptors, the probabilities are still less 
than 1%. At Receptor R4 (Residential property on Buckingham Avenue East) the 
probability of an exceedance is 4.7%, thus an exceedance of the hourly AQS is unlikely 
over a 21-year period. At Receptors R11 (Judds House on Whitby Road) and R12 