 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 13 of 26 
There will also be a centralised bulk above ground tank storage farm for diesel  or equivalent fuel 
in the north-western corner of the installation boundary. Fuel storage - There are 6 fuel storage 
tanks on the bulk tank farm and each fuel storage tank is approximately 155,000 litres capacity. 
Therefore, there is a total of 930,000 litres of fuel (6 tanks @ 155,000 litres = 930,000 litres) 
stored in the tank farm. 
The total capacity for fuel storage on this site is 951,000 litres. 
This amount of fuel is needed on site as it will keep the generators running at full capacity for up 
to 48 hours assuming N operation (this means 18 generators. Site is n+1 so 21 generators of 
which 3 are failsafe protection). Contractual arrangements with customers require this period of 
availability without recourse to tankered deliveries which may not be guaranteed.  
 
Containment Protection - Generator Day Tanks (Belly Tanks) 
Each generator will be housed within proprietary steel container units located outside each Block. 
The generator container units will be raised off ground level on steel frames, which will act to 
protect the container units from vehicular damage. 
Within the container unit for each generator will be a day tank integral to the container unit, this 
will automatically supply diesel or equivalent fuel to the generator.  
The day tanks will be filled directly from bulk storage diesel or equivalent fuel tanks located on the 
site. The day tanks will be fed through underground lines from the bulk tank farm. Each Block is 
fed from two tanks, using two underground fuel supply lines, to ensure maximum redundancy.  
• Block 1 will be fed from two underground lines from Tank 1A and Tank 1B 
• Block 2 will be fed from two underground lines from Tank 2A and Tank 2B 
• Block 3 will be fed from two underground lines from Tank 3A and Tank 3B 
The day tanks will have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of containment: 
• The day tanks are integrally bunded (110%) steel tanks complying with the Control of 
Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001. 
 
• Fuel storage areas will be subject to daily visual inspections as part of daily operational 
activities.  
 
• Fuel supply line connections to the day tanks connect individually to a manifold where the 
piped supply to each generator becomes a steel 2-inch pipe within a 4 inch pipe to 
provide spill protection. The pipelines are hard connected to the day tank fill manifold, 
with isolating valves in place to permit isolation and maintenance. They are not left 
disconnected. 
 
• Connection points and valves have a fill point with drip tray beneath. Furthermore, the 
entire generator enclosure base is a sealed bund, providing additional capacity for leaks. 
 
• All fill point cabinets are lockable and kept locked when not in use. All fill point cabinets 
have drip trays. 
 
• High and high high sensors and alarms, which will shut off the pumps to prevent over -
filling. 
 
• Low level alarms will trigger an investigation. 
 
• Leak detection alarms and tank level gauges are in place on the day tanks.  
 