 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 10 of 26 
(Astoria Heights Apartments on A355), where the probabilities of an exceedance are 
7.1% and 8.9%, respectively, an exceedance is possible every 11 – 14 years. 
 
The operator modelled the 72-hour emergency scenario at the Environment Agency’s request as 
72 hours is the Environment Agency’s worst-case standard for data centres. The operator 
provided this along with their considered worst case of 24 hours. 
Impacts on Ecological Receptors 
Scenario 1: Routine maintenance/ testing 
• During routine operation, the maximum PCs are less than 1% of the long-term AQS and 
less than 10% of the short-term AQS at internationally-designated habitats, and less than 
100% of the long-term and short-term AQS at nationally-designated habitats. The 
Environment Agency guidance is thus that these PCs are insignificant regardless of the 
PEC. 
 
Scenario 2 & 3: Electrical grid outage of 24 & 72 hours 
• During the emergency scenario, the maximum 24-hour mean NOx PECs at the 
internationally-designated habitats are below the AQS. At the nationally-designated 
habitats, the PCs are less than 100% at the majority of habitats, thus the PCs are 
insignificant; the exception is an area of Haymill Valley LNR and LWS, where the PCs 
and PECs exceed the AQS. However, this is based on the assumption that every hour 
includes 15 minutes of unabated emissions. Accounting for the actual mass emissions, 
the PCs at Haymill Valley are insignificant. 
These modelled electrical outages are most probably worst case as the operator stated in their 
Supporting Document that, ‘The electricity supply arrangements for the site include two 33KV 
feeds from the National Grid, either of which can serve the ‘customer load’.  
The operator also carried out further research into National Grid outages in England and stated in 
their BAT Assessment that, ‘UK Power Network figures show reliability of 99.99997% overall 
reliability. No long-term power loss events have been reported in the Slough area in the last 5 
years.’ 
Provided power outages continue to be unlikely the risk of an air quality exceedance from 
emergency operation is low. 
 
Environment Agency review of operator assessment of potential impact on air quality 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and sensitivity analysis 
on the air quality and habitats assessments presented by the operator which included: 
• Testing Scenario 2: the generators are tested individually for 30 minutes once a fortnight 
(total 12 hours per generator per year). 
• Meteorological data observed at Heathrow Airport between 2016 and 2020.  
• Our own terrain data. 
• Additional human health receptors. 
• Our own background data as a reasonable worst case. 
• Surface roughness representing urban land use. 
 
Human Health Assessment 
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the operator’s numerical 
predictions, the outcome of our checks indicates that the PCs from the facility are unlikely to 