 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 20 of 26 
The regulated facility 
We considered the extent and nature of the facility at the site in accordance with RGN2 
‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of RGN2 ‘Defining the scope of the 
installation’, and Appendix 1 of RGN 2 ‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The activities are defined in 
table S1.1 of the permit. 
See key issues for more discussion on the nature of the site. 
The site 
The operator has provided plans which we consider to be satisfactory. 
These show the extent of the site of the facility including the discharge points. 
The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site. During consultation with 
Environment Agency groundwater and contaminated land teams, it was deemed necessary that 
further information should be supplied to ensure that the Environment Agency has sufficient 
information relating to the condition of the site at permit issue. We have therefore, included a pre -
operational condition in order to satisfy this requirement. 
It is also noted that during consultation with Environment Agency groundwater and contaminated 
land teams that there were concerns regarding the decommissioning of the site investigation 
boreholes. 
The operator confirmed in an email dated 02/10/2023 that: 
• The trial pits and hand dug pits were filled in upon completion of the sampling.   
 
• The cable percussive boreholes (15m bgl) and the dynamic sampler boreholes (5m to 6m 
bgl) were not decommissioned by Delta-Simons following the investigation. The principal 
contractor has filled these during excavation and slab pouring. 
 
• Boreholes CP102, CP103, CP104 and CP105 are beneath the main concrete slab of the 
data halls and so are unlikely to be a direct route to ground for any leaks or spills.  
 
• Borehole DS112 is beneath the area of the tank farm and tanker bay which has 
necessitated the digging out of a substantial area of ground to fit the concrete bases and 
pads needed for this, which included part filling and concreting over the old borehole 
location. All areas in the vicinity of this borehole are covered with concrete and or tarmac 
surfacing and drained to the interceptor. 
 
The Environment Agency do not agree that the site investigation boreholes have been 
decommissioned in the required manner. Therefore, these boreholes could allow preferential 
pathways if the slab and/ or upper filled parts of the boreholes were to be compromised at any 
time in the future, or if the boreholes bridge 2 sub-aquifers. These points of vulnerability will need 
to be thoroughly investigated at the time of surrender of the permit or at an earlier time.  The 
information on the location of the boreholes is in documents: Application Bespoke Site Plan 
Baseline Report 15072022 and Application Bespoke SCRET - GWCL Response - 16052023 on 
DMS. 