 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 17 of 26 
water sewer. Drainage systems will be maintained in good condition and regularly cleaned/ 
inspected to prevent blockages. The tank storage area also has bunding and poured concrete 
walls with appropriate joints to prevent weak points and seepage minimising the risk of an 
unplanned release of diesel or equivalent fuel leaving the site. Additionally, should diesel or 
equivalent fuel enter the surface water drainage system there is an on-site interceptor present.   
External areas surrounding the tanker unloading bay will be laid to engineered concrete which 
drains to a central point, where a sealed collection sump is present for use in the event of a spill 
during delivery. The sump beneath the unloading bay is sized at 7,000 litres, equal to a single 
compartment of a multi-compartment fuel delivery tanker. This sump is connected to the drainage 
system via a lockable penstock valve, which is kept closed during filling operations.  Additionally, 
deliveries will take place from tankers in a bunded fuel unloading area minimising the risk of an 
unplanned release of diesel or equivalent fuel leaving the site. 
 
Noise 
Noise is not a significant aspect of data centre permitting (noting that it is only the standby 
generators and associated diesel or equivalent fuel supply systems that are permitted – not the 
operation of the data centre itself). The site will only run the generators regularly as part of the 
testing regimes described earlier, occurring during daytime hours. Overnight operation of the 
generators will only occur in an emergency situation. As this is a new installation it is not possi ble 
to consider the likelihood of overnight operation by examining the frequency of historical outages, 
but the potential for prolonged power outages in the area is considered to be low.  
However, the operator has carried out a Noise Impact Assessment for the operation of the Kohler 
KD4500-E generators at the data centre. 
Operator’s assessment of potential noise impact: 
The operator submitted a Noise Impact Assessment which considered the potential impacts of 
noise emissions on the nearest residential Noise Sensitive Receptors (NSRs) and commercial 
premises with respect to the operation of Kohler KD4500-E generators.  
The operator included the following sources of noise generation per building: 
• 16No. ‘low-noise’ chillers (not regulated) 
• 43No. direct expansion (DX) air conditioning units (not regulated) 
• 10No. air handling units (AHUs) (not regulated) 
• 7No. 4.5 MVA emergency generators 
• Sound break-out through building envelope 
They considered 2 residential receptors and 6 commercial receptors. 
The operator assessed two scenarios: 
Normal operations and emergency operations. 
 
Their conclusions were: 
Impact on Residential Receptors 
Normal and Emergency Operations 
• Once contextual factors have been considered, an “Indication of Low Impact depending 
on the context” for the daytime (07:00 – 23:00hrs) and night-time (23:00 – 07:00hrs) 
during normal and emergency operations. 