 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 14 of 26 
• The steel tanks are factory painted to prevent corrosion and there will be periodic 
inspection of the tanks as part of the planned preventative maintenance system in line 
with manufacturer’s recommendations. 
 
• A planned preventative maintenance programme will be in place to ensure equipment 
and infrastructure (e.g. bunds, surfacing, pipework) are in good condition.  
 
• Spill kits will be available for use in the unlikely event of an unplanned fuel release. A spill 
procedure will be developed for the site as part of the Environmental Management 
System. 
 
Containment Protection - Bulk Tank Farm 
There will also be a centralised bulk above ground tank storage farm for diesel or equivalent fuel 
in the north-western corner of the installation boundary.  
 
The bulk tank farm will have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of containment:  
• The bulk storage tanks are double skinned (integrally bunded) steel cylindrical upright 
tanks and have been designed in line with current standards. 
 
• Tertiary bund - Capacity of at least 110% of the largest container to meet the Control of 
Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001. The bund is designed to hold groups 
of tanks, i.e. Tank 1 and 2 are together in the same bund, to maintain independence from 
the other Blocks. The bund capacity is 110% per 2 tanks. 
 
• The steel tanks are factory painted and are raised from the base of the bund on concrete 
plinths to reduce contact with rainwater to prevent corrosion. There will also be periodic 
inspection of the tanks as part of the planned preventative maintenance system in line 
with manufacturer’s recommendations. 
 
• External areas and areas surrounding the diesel or equivalent fuel storage tanks will be 
laid down to hardstanding, hence reducing the risk of pollutants percolating into the 
ground and provided with surface water drains to collect and discharge contaminated 
water run-off through the on-site interceptors before discharging to the public surface 
water sewer. The drainage system will be maintained in good condition and regularly 
