 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 25 of 26 
reduced frequency of testing; undertaking testing at times when background air quality 
concentrations are reduced. 
 
5. Recommendation that assessment is provided by the operator on the emergency power 
outage scenario, as well as the impacts from other data centres on the background air 
quality and potential impacts from the proposed permit. 
 
6. Recommendation that justification is provided as to why the operator has assessed 
potential impacts from a 24 hour and 72 hour blackout scenario.  
 
7. Recommendation that assessment is provided by the operator on the proposed annual 
full load in-service test on each set of 7 generators.  
 
Summary of actions taken: 
With regard to appropriate permit conditions, background air quality and the assessment of 
surrounding data centres on background air quality during testing and the emergency operation 
scenario the following applies: 
As described in more detail in the Air Quality Section above, we audited the operator’s air quality 
assessment, including undertaking detailed check modelling and completing sensitivity analysis.   
The facility is not located in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) but is located within 400m 
of an AQMA and so abatement in the form of selective catalytic reduction (SCR) would be 
implemented to achieve a NOx emission limit value (ELV) of 190 mg/m3 (at 15% O2). The 
operator has derived the background NO2 concentrations for human health receptors from the 
Defra predicted background concentrations for 2023 and from local monitoring data measured by 
Slough borough council. We included sensitive human receptors which were not included by the 
operator and are satisfied that worst-case emissions from the site will not cause an exceedance 
of the relevant ES at all receptors. In conclusion, based on the modelled operating envelope and 
the results from our audit, the site is unlikely to cause an exceedance of an environmental 
standard at human health receptors. However, we cannot rule out exceedances of the annual 
NO2 environmental standard as a result of an emergency grid failure scenario, but historical grid 
reliability suggests exceedances are unlikely to occur. 
With regard to the absence of a risk assessment of other potential air emissions, for example 
particulate matter, the operator submitted an Air Quality Assessment that assessed the impacts 
of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) for human health, and on nitrogen oxides (NOx) and nutrient and acid 
nitrogen deposition for ecological impacts, as these are the principal pollutants of concern with 
respect to emissions from low sulphur diesel oil generators. However, the generators will be 
installed with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology to control the NOx emissions to 
safeguard human health; thus, the assessment also considers the potential for emissions of 
ammonia (NH3) associated with slippage from the installation. The operator scoped out the 
impacts of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter stating that these emissions will be negligible 
due to the properties of the low sulphur diesel fuel, as evidenced by the absence of emission limit 
values for these pollutants from this fuel type under Schedule 25A of the EPR. Potential 
emissions of volatile organic compounds and carbon monoxide are excluded on the same basis.  
We accept the operator’s approach. Based on particulate emissions data provided in the  
technical data sheets submitted with the application, we agree that the total operational hours and 
emergency running period will not be long enough to cause exceedances of the relevant 
Environmental Standards. We have however, included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel 
to ultra-low sulphur gas oil or alternative fuels as agreed in writing with the Environment Agency.   
With regard to the recommendation that documentation on management of air quality impacts 
(AQMP) is submitted in advance of any permit granting to support the decision -making process 