 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 18 of 26 
• Importantly, the assessment assumes that plant noise does not contain impulsive 
components. 
 
• During the daytime and night-time, the predicted operational noise levels are considered 
to be below the Lowest Observable Adverse Effect Level (LOAEL) by reference to 
Planning Practice Guidance-Noise (PPG-N). Under such circumstances PPG-N advises 
that the action is “No specific measures required”. 
 
Impact on Commercial Receptors 
Normal and Emergency Operations 
• Predicted internal noise levels at neighbouring commercial premises indicate compliance 
with BS8233 Criteria for an ‘executive office’. 
 
• During the daytime and night-time, the predicted operational noise levels are considered 
to be below LOAEL by reference to PPG-N. Under such circumstances PPG-N advises 
that the action is “No specific measures required”. 
 
Environment Agency review of operator’s assessment of potential noise impacts 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and sensitivity analysis 
on the Noise Impact Assessment (NIA) presented by the operator. 
In this assessment we only assessed the permitted activity of the back-up generators. The 
operator states that there is a low impact at nearby residential receptors.  
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the operator’s numerical 
predictions, we agree with the operator’s overall conclusions that the sound emissions from the 
diesel generators on site are likely to be low risk. 
Based on our assessment, we have not required a Noise Management Plan (NMP) as part of this 
determination. However, we have included our standard noise condition in the permit, which 
allows us to ask for a Noise Management Plan if we become aware of noise-related problems on 
site.  
 
Permit Conditions 
The Permit condition 2.3.3 limits emergency operation to 500 hours/ annum. 
Table S1.2 incorporates the maintenance and testing regime, which is less than 50 hours/ 
generator. 
Emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not applicable to MCPs operating less than 500 hours per 
year. 
Emergency operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make 
emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data  centre 
itself. The Environment Agency expects planned testing and generator operations to be 
organised to minimise occasions and durations (subject to client requirements).  
Each individual standby generator that is a new Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) is required to 
have stack monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) and NOx, refer to monitoring section below.  
Table S1.1 of the permit prevents any electricity produced at the installation from being exported 
to the National Grid. 
Table S1.2 incorporates operational and management procedures reflecting the outcomes of the 
air quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, the duration and frequency of whole 