 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 24 of 26 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting economic growth set 
out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the guidance issued under section 110 of 
that Act in deciding whether to grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the regulatory outcomes for 
which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, these regulatory outcomes include an 
explicit reference to development or growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a 
factor that all specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the protections 
set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to be set for this 
operation in the body of the decision document above. The guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 
that the growth duty does not legitimise non-compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or 
pursue economic growth at the expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are reasonable and 
necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. This also promotes growth 
amongst legitimate operators because the standards applied to the operator are consistent 
across businesses in this sector and have been set to achieve the required legislative standards.  
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on 
GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination 
process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section: 
Response received from UK HSA. 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
1. Recommendation that when considering appropriate permit conditions the Environment 
Agency takes into account that the proposed application is in an area of poor air quality, 
with four Air Quality Management Areas designated by the local authority, but in the 
vicinity of the site for nitrogen dioxide and that the reported background roadside nitrogen 
dioxide concentrations are in excess of the annual mean air quality standard and the non -
roadside concentration is >75% of the annual air quality standard. 
 
2. Recommendation that justification is provided for the absence of a risk assessment of 
other potential air emissions, for example particulate matter. The operator has only 
undertaken assessment on oxides of nitrogen. Where no justification is provided, it is 
recommended that a risk assessment is undertaken. 
 
3. Recommendation that documentation on management of air quality impacts (AQMP) is 
submitted in advance of any permit granting to support the decision-making process and 
assessment of potential impact. 
 
4. Recommendation that assessment of surrounding data centres on background air quality 
is provided and if required further mitigation undertaken, which may include but not be 
limited to co-ordination of testing to ensure that testing is undertaken at different times; 