 
EPR/CP3042QG/A001 Decision Document 8/12/2023                         Page 16 of 26 
isolated, and the secondary pipeline remains operational while the leaking pipeline is 
drained, and investigations are undertaken. 
 
• Each length of pipeline is expected to be one continuous piece of pipeline, with no joints. 
Should an intermediate jointing pit be required, it will be a sealed chamber with manhole 
access above. 
 
Containment Protection - Tanker Unloading Bay 
The tanker unloading bay will have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of 
containment: 
• The tanker unloading bay is an engineered concrete area which drains to a central point, 
where a sealed collection sump is present for use in the event of a spill during delivery. 
The sump beneath the unloading bay is sized at 7,000 litres, equal to a single 
compartment of a multi-compartment fuel delivery tanker. This sump is connected to the 
drainage system via a lockable penstock valve, which is kept closed during filling 
operations. 
 
• Although Section 5.4.4 of CIRIA C736 recommends removal of penstocks where they 
drain to interceptors, the operation of penstocks will be tightly controlled by a checklist 
completed by the facilities manager and delivery driver for every delivery. Furthermore, 
the interceptor has an isolator valve at the outfall triggered by the oil probe in the 
interceptor, providing an additional layer of protection on any spillages leaving the site. 
Visual checks on the tanker bay will be carried out before opening the penstock following 
completion of deliveries. 
 
• A tanker unloading procedure will be documented within the EMS which includes the 
process for draining the sump of uncontaminated rainwater, and processes to deal with 
fuel spills and leaks. 
 
• A planned preventative maintenance programme will be in place to ensure equipment 
and infrastructure (e.g. bunds, surfacing, pipework) are in good condition.  
 
• Spill kits will be available for use in the unlikely event of an unplanned fuel release. A spill 
procedure will be developed for the site as part of the Environmental Management 
System. 
 
• Fuel loading and unloading activities will be conducted in line with best practices. This is 
not expected to eliminate the potential for accidental spillages, but they are expected to 
limit the duration of such event and therefore the potential consequences. 
 
• Deliveries will take place from tankers in a bunded fuel unloading area to the main top up 
tanks. 
 
• Approved suppliers will be arranged for the delivery of diesel or equivalent fuel, which will 
be undertaken in accordance with delivery procedures which will be developed as part of 
the Environmental Management System. 
 
Tertiary containment is provided by the hardstanding of the external areas of the tank storage 
area and unloading bay. 
External areas surrounding the diesel or equivalent fuel storage tanks will be laid down to 
hardstanding and provided with surface water drains to collect and discharge contaminated water 
run-off through the on-site interceptors before discharging to soakaways and the public surface 