 
 Page 6 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
 
The process contributions at all relevant conservation sites within the s creening distance were 
insignificant for the emergency scenario. No further assessment is necessary.  
 
Our audit of the modelling work confirms that both short term and long term impacts from 
emergency operation are unlikely to be significant  for ecological receptors with regards to NO x 
nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition process contributions. 
 
Permit conditions  
 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ 
for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity. 
Therefore emission limit values (ELVs) to air and engine emissions monitoring are not required 
within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned hours required to come 
off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure. 
 
Technically, each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested 
and used in a planned way for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or 
associated monitoring under the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED)/Medium Combustion Plant 
Directive (MCPD). However, the Environment Agency expects the number of and duration of 
planned testing and generator operations to be minimised as much as possible. (subject to client 
requirements). The BAT expectation is that individual generator testing is below 50 hours/annum 
which is drawn from the MCPD specified generator guidance. In this instance the operator is 
maintaining and testing for a total of 39 hours a year for the installation as a whole, this is in line 
with BAT and considerably below the level at which ELVs would be needed. 
 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as 
demand side response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site 
export of electricity) and Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. 
This is primarily to differentiate data centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the 
balancing market and importantly provide a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions 
to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling 
by minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests 
and planning off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at 
risk” high ambient pollutant background levels 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the actual reliability of the local 
electricity grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency to judge that the realistic likelihood of 
the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode is low. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical 
outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require both annual reporting and 
immediate notification of the Environment Agency. 
 
Noise 
 
The site will only run the engines regularly as part of the testing regime described earlier for 39 
hours per year. This occurs during daytime hours at the weekend, and is not classed as part of 
normal operations.  
 
Prolonged operation will only occur in an emergency situation where the National Grid supply is 
lost. As this is a new installation then it is not possible to consider historical outage. Instead the 
operator has provided information from the adjacent Slough Campus also operated by Equinix 
(UK) Limited. On this installation four generators did run in 2019 as a result of a nationwide power 