 
 Page 5 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
 
The process contributions at all relevant conservation sites within the screening distance were 
insignificant for the testing scenario. No further assessment is necessary.  
 
Our audit of the modelling confirms that NO
x nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition process 
contributions will be insignificant at all conservation sites. 
 
Emergency scenario 
 
The emergency scenario that has been modelled is based upon all engines operating 
simultaneously for 1 hour. There is 30 hours of fuel stored on the site which is based upon customer 
demands and Equinix design guidelines, to cater for long-term disruption to the electrical grid. It is 
deemed unlikely that it will ever be needed. Short term operation is more realistic. 
 
Human Receptors: 
 
During the emergency operating scenario for LD11x (with or without consideration of the Slough 
Campus), the air quality modelling does indicate a risk of exceedances for environment standards 
for short term NO
2. Whether the AQS would actually be breached would depend on 
meteorological conditions, and how many hours the engine operated for (noting that 18 
exceedances are permissible in any one year). LD11x alone is not predicted to have the potential 
to breach the acute exposure level of 940 µg/m3. Long term emissions of NO2 are insignificant.  
 
The generators on the Slough Campus have only operated once in 2019 which was as a result of 
a national power outage. The only other record of power supply failure was during 2017 when 
one of the substation feeds failed but the generators did not need to start due to the second 
substation being unaffected. It is anticipated that the timescale of operation is likely to be short. 
They will only operate in this mode when the National Grid is off-line. The Operator has put in 
multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure including dual 
substation connection and management systems for preventing data centre failure. 
 
This is a new site and all engines installed meet 2g TA-Luft emissions standard. The stack height 
is 16m which is the maximum permissible within the Slough Simplified Planning Zone (SPZ), 
which this site is located within. The diesel engines installed are in line with BAT, and dispersion 
has been maximised within the restrictions in place at this location. 
 
The EA has  specified that the operator shall have a written action Air Quality Management Plan 
(AQMP) to manage the issue for prolonged emergency running of the plant. This needs to be 
proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The operator is expected to work with the local 
authority to develop this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered. This requirement for an 
AQMP is included in the permit through improvement condition IC2. 
Our audit of the modelling agrees  with the applicant that an exceedance of the NO
2 short term 
hourly Environmental Standard could occur if these operations took place more than 18 times a 
year. However, in the last nine years there have only been two to three instances requiring 
emergency power generation due to a failure of the national grid supply. 
Our audit indicated that there would be exceedances of the acute exposure levels for NO  over 10 
minutes, 30 minutes and 1 hour periods at public exposure locations. This indicates an air quality 
incident level event under emergency operations from LD 11x in-combination with the Slough 
Campus. However, the consider ation of LD 11x with the Slough C ampus does not alter our 
previously made conclusions and recommendations for the Slough C ampus air quality impacts. 
These recommendations were considered when determining the Slough  Campus permit 
application with relevant measures incorporated into the permit. Additional measures are not 
required.  
Ecological Receptors: 
 
Short term and long term impacts were considered from LD11x alone, and LD11x plus the Slough 
Campus. The modelling considered air borne NOx, Nitrogen deposition and Acidification.  