 
 Page 7 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
outage, prior to that the last record of supply failure was in 2017. The risk of ‘LD11x’ to be 
operated for a prolonged period is low. Therefore, the potential for prolonged noise is also 
considered to be low. 
 
Despite this, the operator has taken measures to minimise noise emissions. The generators are 
housed in acoustic enclosures and all flues are wrapped in acoustic insulation. The operator also 
commissioned a noise modelling assessment which recommended that a 17.5m noise screen 
was installed to the south of the site. This has been installed. 
 
The limited hours of operation combined with the proposed noise mitigation measures are 
considered to be sufficient to control noise arising from the installation. 
 
BAT 
 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we accept that oil fired 
diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators. However 
we requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the particular configuration and 
plant sizing to meet the standby arrangement (e.g. 2n).  
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of 
emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission 
concentration of 2000mg/m3. All of the engines meet the 2g standard emissions.  
 
The number and size of the engines matches the requirements of the data centre. Maximum 
demand calculations have been carried out to affirm the generators are sized (and not oversized) 
for the design load. The site operates to an n+1 standby arrangement, where n is the load 
requirement of the data centre.  
 
The size constraints of the site prevents the consideration of a greater number of smaller 
generators. Larger generators are also generally more efficient than smaller ones. This 
configuration would also increase the number of hours of testing that would be required each 
year. A smaller number of larger generators would equally be difficult to fit within the size of the 
site. Of the variety of engines considered, the efficiency of the engines was similar regardless of 
capacity.  
 
In order to minimise the need for emergency operation, each building has two separate 
substation feeds. To address short term fluctuations, brown-outs or black-outs, the site has 
uninterruptable power supplies. This can supply power for six minutes, until the generators kick 
in.  
 
Protection of Groundwater 
 
There are no fugitive emissions to land or groundwater from the data centre. The generators are 
located in containers over hard-standing or concrete flooring. Externally, the Site consists of new 
hard standing. Diesel, hazardous waste and hazardous materials storage is bunded and/or 
indoors, such that any source of potential contamination is prevented from discharge to land. 
 
Bulk fuel tanks are fully-bunded to 110% of their volume. The day tanks are double skinned (self-
bunded) with leak detection alarms. The majority are under cover and not subject to rainwater 
incursion. 
 
Equinix has emergency response procedures in place in the event of a release of oil or diesel, 
processes for the planning for such eventualities and checklists to audit the response in case 
such an event occurs. Rainwater is kept separate from any areas in which there may be any 
potential contaminants and is allowed to run off to the surface water drainage serving the trading 
estate. 
 