 
 Page 2 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
Key issues of the decision 
The site is a new data centre which consists of a Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) activity under the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 for the burning of any fuel in an 
appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). 
 
The combustion plant only operates during limited routine maintenance or in an emergency 
scenario. The emergency combustion activity comprises 12 diesel fuelled standby generators. 
Each generator is approximately 8 MWth and has a stack 16m in height.   
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a 
failure in the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical 
supply. The generators will be used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No 
electricity will be exported from the installation. The standby generators are based upon a block 
redundant design and configured so that in the event of a total mains failure 11 generators will fire 
up with 1 as back-up running but with no load. The site has a dual electricity feed to the site. In 
the event that one of the feeds fails approximately half of the generators will fire up. These will be 
shut down with the load manually transferred to the remaining utility feed if it is deemed reliable 
by onsite operations staff. 
 
The engines run on diesel fuel. All engines are housed in separate containers with each having 
an individual double skinned day tank. There are four bulk 82,800 litre capacity fuel tanks located 
underneath the diesel generators, which are fully bunded to 110% of tank volume and have a 
leak detection system.  
 
The site is covered in hardstanding. There are no combined drains and as mentioned oil tanks 
are bunded to prevent oil entering surface water drains. Surface water passes through an oil 
interceptor before being discharge to a surface water sewer. No process waters are generated for 
the site and thus there is no discharge to foul sewer from the generators. Additionally, there is a 
surface water borehole on site. No pumping is required to extract the water as it is under positive 
pressure. It is protected by a retaining wall to prevent any contaminants from entering (Schedule 
5 question 13e response). 
 
The testing schedule is as follows: 
1. Start-up test - Fortnightly. Each engine is operated for 5 minutes, one after the other at 0% 
load.  
2. Black building test - 3 times a year, every 3 months. All generators at once for 1 hour at 60% 
load. 
3. Full load test: Annual test. Each engine is operated one after the other for an hour at 100% 
load. 
 
The site is located on Slough Business Estate in North West London. The National Grid 
Reference for the site is SU 94555 81325. The surrounding area is a mix of industrial, commercial 
and residential uses. 
 
On the Slough Business Estate there is another Equinix (UK) Limited permitted installation 
(EPR/LP3303PR) referred to as the Slough Campus. The installation consists of 5 separate sites 
with diesel generators providing back up-power generation capacity to a series of data centres. 
We consider that there is no technical connection between LD11x and the Slough Campus on the 
basis that they are managed independently and that the infrastructure (fuel storage and grid 
connection) is not shared.  
 
 
 
 