 
 Page 3 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
In reaching our decision we also took into consideration that: 
 
• LD11x will not be excluded from regulation by being treated as a separate site, a 
bespoke permit is required due to the total MWth of the site. Therefore, from a regulatory 
perspective it makes no difference if this is treated as a new bespoke permit or as part of 
a variation to the Slough Campus permit. 
• Full consideration of Environmental Impacts have/could be made as part of a new 
bespoke/variation to the Slough Campus permit. The air quality impact assessment in this 
new bespoke EPR/CP3409BH/A001 application includes the emissions from the Slough 
Campus as part of an in-combination assessment with LD11x in this bespoke application.  
• LD11x is part of a joint venture with Equinix (UK) Limited being the operator. Treating 
LD11x as a bespoke permit makes the distinction between this site and the Slough 
Campus, where the sites are wholly owned by Equinix (UK) Limited. 
 
Therefore, treating LD11x as a separate installation is appropriate from both a technical and 
practical perspective.   
 
Air Quality  
 
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO
2) resulting from the 
combustion process on site. The Applicant submitted an air dispersion modelling report which 
assesses the potential impact of emissions of NO2 and PM10 from the generators on local air 
quality.  
 
Sulphur Dioxide was not assessed as an ultra-low sulphur fuel is used resulting in negligible 
emissions of sulphur, this has been included as a restriction in the permit.  Carbon monoxide 
emissions will also be negligible due to installation of modern highly efficient engines allowing for 
complete combustion. 
 
The data centre is situated within 2km of 3 Air Quality Management Areas (AQMA). These are as 
follow: Slough AQMA No.1 - 1,470m to the South, Slough AQMA No.3 Extension – 1940m to the 
South East and South Bucks AQMA – 1660m to the South West. The local authority were 
consulted and no response was received. We have also included an improvement condition (IC1) 
requiring the operator to work with the Local Authority to consider the response during grid failure. 
This should be based upon actual emissions from the installation collected through the emissions 
monitoring requested as part of improvement condition 3. 
 
We audited the air dispersion modelling and report submitted with the permit application. Both the 
maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the modelling were assessed. We agreed 
with the operator that predicted levels for the three testing regimes and emergency operations were 
unlikely to cause an exceedance of the Environmental Standard for human receptors  and 
ecological receptors for NO
2 and PM10.  
 
Equinix also operate a series of data centre sites on the Slough Trading Estate under another 
permit EPR/LP3303PR, where the site is referred to as the Slough Campus. The operator has 
undertaken an assessment alone for LD 11x, and also for LD11x and the Slough Campus, plus a 
further assessment taking into account background levels. As described above, we have concluded 
that there is no technical link between LD 11x and the Slough Campus. Therefore, LD 11x should 
not be included in the permit for the Slough Campus.   
 
Consideration of LD 11x and the Slough Campus as part of an alone assessment is beyond the 
scope of what is required. It is only necessary to consider LD11x as part of an alone assessment. 
This is because emissions from the Slough Campus  are taken into account when considering 
background levels. The approach taken by the operator (in taking into account the Slough Campus) 
will result in the double counting of emissions. 