 
 Page 4 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
 
A screening exercise using our H1 tool was undertaken for PM10 based upon a theoretical scenario 
of all engines operating for 8 consecutive hours in a day. There were no exceedances alone or in-
combination with the Slough Campus. Therefore, emissions of PM 10 are considered acceptable 
and have not been considered any further. Consideration below is for NO2 impacts only.  
 
Maintenance testing 
 
Human Receptors: 
 
Short Term impacts 
 
1. Start-up test – There were no predicted exceedences of the Air Quality Standard (AQS) as a 
result of the start-up testing of the LD11x generators. All short term emissions are less than the 
10% significance threshold.  
2. Black building test – It is predicted that there will be three exceedances of the NO2 hourly 
standard per year. Not all short term emissions are less than 10%. The probability of an impact 
was considered and is described below.  
3. Full load test – There were no predicted exceedences of the Air Quality Standard (AQS) as a 
result of the start-up testing of the LD11x generators. All short term emissions are less than the 
10% significance threshold.  
Therefore, the testing re gime considered together for LD 11x has the potential to result in a 
maximum number of exceedances of 3 hours in a year, which is below the 19 permissible 
exceedance hours before the standard is breached. 
 
The testing regime for LD11x was considered with the testing regime of the Slough Campus. The 
statistical likelihood of the combined testing regime to result in an impact was predicted to be 0.7-
1.0%, therefore, it is highly unlikely that there will be a significant impact. No further assessment is 
necessary. 
 
Our audit of the modelling was unable to replicate the probability of 0.7%-1.0% presented by the 
operator. However, we can confirm than the exceedance of the short term NO
2 Environmental 
Standard is  unlikely (<5%), our s tatistical analysis indicated the testing regimes are unlikely to 
coincide with more than 18 exceedance hours.  
 
Long Term impacts 
 
The purpose of the generators is to provide electrical power over a short period of time in the event 
of grid failure , reflected through only 30 hours of fuel being stored on the installation. We have 
limited hours of operation for each diesel generator to a maximum of 500 hours a year for 
emergency use. Therefore, long term impacts will not be an issue, which is shown in the operators 
modelling results as described below. 
 
Annual emissions from all 3 parts of the testing schedule for both LD11x considered alone and for 
when LD11x was considered along with the Slough Campus were insignificant (<1% of the AQS). 
The long term emissions screen out and no further assessment is necessary. 
 
Our au dit of the modelling  confirms that Long Term process contribution s are not likely to be 
significant at the receptors either alone or when considered with the Slough Campus. 
 
Ecological Receptors: 
 
Short term and long term impacts were considered from LD11x alone and LD11x plus the Slough 
Campus. The modelling considered air borne NO
x, Nitrogen deposition and Acidification.  