Permit number                              
EPR/CP3409BH 12 
Table S1.2 Operating techniques 
Description Parts Date Received 
arrangements, Grid reliability, Oil storage, Oil interceptor, 
Drainage, Noise and Fire. 
Response to Schedule 5 
Notice dated 24/08/2020 
Response to Schedule 5 providing further information 
regarding: BAT, plant sizing and number of engines, 
manufacturers data sheets, information regarding surface 
water borehole and updated drainage plan. 
30/10/2020 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The Operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power;  
• Consider how the response could be co-ordinated with other data 
centre sites on the Slough Trading Estate operated by the 
Operator, in additional to any Operator-wide measures that could 
be put in place during prolonged operation; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
18 months after 
the date of 
issue of this 
permit or as 
agreed in 
writing with the 
Environment 
Agency. 
IC2 The Operator shall carry out a review of the site’s secondary containment 
system which serves the oil and diesel storage tanks  
The review shall compare the system’s design, method of construction 
and integrity against the standards outlined in CIRIA guidance C736 – 
Containment Systems for the Prevention of Pollution or an equivalent 
industry standard.   
A written report of the review shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for written approval which details: 
• the review’s findings and recommendations; 
• proposals for the implementation of recommended improvements; 
and 
• timescales for implementation of improvements. 
The operator shall implement the recommended improvements to the 
tertiary containment system within the timescales approved by the 
Environment Agency. 
12 months after 
the date of issue 
of this permit or 
as agreed in 
writing with the 
Environment 
Agency.
 
IC3 The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment Agency for 
approval verifying the predicted short-term nitrogen dioxide 
concentrations at the boundary of the site. The report shall include but is 
not limited to: 
12 months after 
the date of 
issue of this 
permit or as 
agreed in 
writing with the 