Permit number                              
EPR/CP3409BH 2 
LD11x  
Permit number EPR/CP3409BH 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes back-up generation capacity a Schedule 1 Part 
A(1) 1.1 activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance with 
a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). The site is located on the Slough Trading Estate. The 
National Grid Reference for the site is SU 94547 81314. The site is approximately 0.755 hectares in size. 
The surrounding area is a mix of industrial, commercial and residential uses. 
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The 
emergency combustion activity comprises 12 diesel fuelled standby generators. Each generator has a 
thermal input of 8 MW. The aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 96 MWth. Each generator has an 
exhaust, which is 16m above ground level.  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all 
the generators will fire up with 11 generators sharing the load evenly with the 12
th running with no load. The 
12th would operate if one of generators were to fail. If only one of the dual electricity feeds to the National 
Grid were to fail approximately half of the generators would start, with the load transferring back to the 
remaining feed once it has been deemed reliable. All the generators are subject to a maintenance testing 
schedule.  
 
The engines run on diesel fuel which is stored in four bulk diesel storage tanks below the generators. The 
tanks are 82,800 litres each. Each generator is situated inside its own bunded container, also containing 
double skinned diesel day tanks. The generator containers are stacked on top of each other thus making it 
two generator containers high. The site is covered in hardstanding, and surface water gullies drain into an oil 
interceptor prior to discharge from site to sewer. There is no sewer connection directly to the permitted 
activities. 
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide. 
 
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number. 
Status log of the permit 
Description Date Comments 
Application EPR/CP3409BH/A001 Duly made 
13/07/2020 
Application for a combustion facility consisting of 12 
diesel engines providing emergency power to an 
electronic data centre.  
Response to Schedule 5 notice 
dated 24/08/2020 
28/09/2020 Response to Schedule 5 providing information 
regarding BAT, plant sizing and number, plant 
configuration, thermal input,  stack heights and 
arrangements, maintenance, grid reliability, oil 
storage, drainage, noise and fire. 