 
 Page 13 of 13 – 09/02/2021 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: Public Health England (PHE) 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
The consultee noted the main emissions of potential concern are PM2.5, PM10 and nitrogen 
dioxide. Based on the H1 screening and detailed modelling provided, testing shows Air Quality 
Standards (AQS) were unlikely to be breached. However, in emergency scenarios there is the 
potential for the one hour AQS to be breached for nitrogen oxides. This risk is considered to be 
acceptable based on the fact that this is based on an extreme worst case scenario and that there 
has only been 2 or 3 instances in the last nine years where the generators have been needed. 
Even if breaching the AQS for NOx for a single hour does not constitute a breach then the 
consideration of the Acute Exposure Guidance Levels (AEGL) should be made. It is requested 
that a written action plan is produced for managing emissions during prolonged emergency 
operation. Based on information provide risk to human health is considered low. 
 
Summary of actions taken:  
We have assessed that emergency operation is extremely unlikely. Other generators on 
the Slough Trading Estate operated by Equinix (UK) Limited did run on site in 2019 as a result of 
a nationwide power outage (four generators). Prior to that the last record of supply failure was in 
2017. The potential for prolonged noise is therefore considered to be low. 
 
Impacts on human receptors screened out for NO2 and PM10 pollutants due to the unlikelihood 
of emergency power generation and low probability of short term exceedances for the pollutants. 
Our audit of the air quality modelling did not show any exceedance of the AEGLs. An 
Improvement Conditions has been set to look to minimise the impact from short term emissions 
of nitrogen oxides during prolonged emergency operation. 