 
Permit number 
EPR/CP3902LV  12 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC5 Performance of SCR systems (LON1B) 
The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment Agency 
for assessment and written approval. The report must contain: 
  
• Detailed information on the specification of the suitability of the 
NOx sensors and urea solution dosing to the SCR systems. 
• Evidence of the initial calibration of the NOx sensors and 
verification of the levels of unabated and abated NOx emissions 
upstream and downstream of the SCR system according to a 
methodology consistent with web guide ‘Monitoring stack 
emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 20 
March 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
• Confirmation that the SCR systems achieve the NOx abatement 
performance stated in the response to PO3 in table S1.4 of this 
permit, or a proposal for remedial actions when this is not 
achieved. 
• A plan to periodically calibrate the NOx sensors and verify the 
performance of the SCR systems, including the proposed 
frequencies. 
 
The operator must implement the proposals in the report in line with 
the timescales agreed within the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 
Within 3 months from 
the date of issue of 
the permit variation 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
or the date when the 
LON1B SGBs are first 
put into operation, 
whichever is later or 
as agreed in writing 
with the Environment 
Agency  
 
 
 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures 
Reference Operation 
PO1 Commissioning (LON1A) 
At least one month before operation of the 16 SBGs (model KDKD83V16), added by 
variation EPR/CP3902LV/V002, the operator shall submit a commissioning plan to the 
Environment Agency for approval.  
The plan shall provide timescales for the commissioning of the diesel generators and 
shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the diesel generators is covered within 
the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations and impacts.  
When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted regular testing 
regime, the operator shall submit an environmental risk assessment for approval by 
the Environment Agency, demonstrating that the environmental risks during the 
commissioning are minimised and remain not significant. The commissioning of the 
engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the plan and associated 
environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency. 
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 