 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 5 of 20 
a “Closed Loop” system with NOx sensors on the engine out and tailpipe which 
only doses enough AdBlue that can be used by the SCR catalysts. However, as 
an extra precaution, the SCR reactor has a layer of Ammonia Slip Catalysts 
(ASC) that will remove any ammonia to prevent it being emitted from the exhaust. 
Also refer to ‘Selective catalytic reduction’ section of this document. 
The applicant provided an assessment of the impact from emissions to air in their 
report ‘LON1 Phase B Environmental Permit Variation Application. Air Emissions 
Risk Assessment, LON1B, Dagenham. NTT Global Data Centers EMEA Limited. 
SLR Project No.: 410.V61547.00001. Revision: V2.0’. 
Assessment scenarios 
The assessment scenarios modelled for all SBGs (LON1A & LON1B) were: 
• routine testing and maintenance scheduled operations; 
• non-routine emergency outage operations (72-hour outage); and 
• LON1B commissioning tests. 
We have incorporated these into table S1.2 of the permit. 
Assessment criteria 
The applicant submitted air dispersion modelling as part of their air quality impact 
assessment, which allowed the process contribution (PC) to be predicted at any 
human and ecological receptor that could be impacted by the operation of the 
installation. 
 
The PC is the estimated concentration of an emitted substance, and when 
calculated within a dispersion model, takes into account relevant parameters of 
the release and surrounding conditions, including local meteorology. Once short-
term and long-term PCs have been calculated, they are compared with 
Environmental Standards (ES). 
 
PCs are considered insignificant if: 
• The long-term PC is less than 1% of the relevant ES; and 
• The short-term PC is less than 10% of the relevant ES. 
When assessing the significance of PCs at local nature sites, we consider that 
emissions are insignificant if: 
• The long-term PC is less than 100% of the relevant ES for protected 
conservation areas; and 
• The short-term PC is less than 100% of the relevant ES for protected 
conservation areas. 
 
When an emission is screened out in this way, we would normally consider that 
the applicant’s proposals for prevention and control of the emission are 