Variation and consolidation  
application number  
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 3 
The site is an electronic data storage centre which consists of a Schedule 1 listed activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations: 
 
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a): Burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW).   
The activity falls under Chapter II of the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED). The liquid fuelled standby 
generators (SBGs) are classed as Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) as part of a Chapter II installation. The 
Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) requirements are fulfilled through compliance with Chapter II of 
Directive 2010/75/EU. Operating as new MCPs as part of a Chapter II installation, they will be used as back-
up generators, only providing power at the site during a power outage.  
There are 52 SBGs with a total thermal input capacity of 335.15 MWth, classed as ‘new’ MCPs as part of the 
IED. 
The SBGs will be used solely to generate power for the facility in the event of an emergency situation , such 
as a brown- or black-out of the local electricity transmission network. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation.  
LON1A 
12 SBGs each with a thermal rated input of 4.1 MWth (total thermal rated input of 49.2 MWth) (phase 1)  (no 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) abatement installed); and 
16 SBGs each with a thermal rated unput of 6.947 MWth (total thermal rated input of 111.15 MWth ) (phases 
2 and 3) (SCR abatement installed). 
LON1B 
22 SBGs each with a thermal rated input of 7.6 MWth (total thermal rated input of 167.2 MWth)  (SCR 
abatement installed); and 
2 SBGs each with a thermal rated input of 3.8 MWth (total thermal rated input of 7.6 MWth)  (SCR abatement 
installed). 
The gas oil and/or hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) fuel for the LON1A SBGs is stored in bunded belly tanks 
with an integral bund of 110% capacity. The belly tanks are integral to the container units, located beneath 
the base of each SBG unit. These tanks are raised off ground level on concrete plinths and housed within 
proprietary steel container units. 
The gas oil and/or HVO fuel for the LON1B SBGs is stored at the LON1B data centre building in belly tanks 
which sit below the individual SBGs within the internal SBG rooms. Each generator room is bunded to 
provide 110% containment of the maximum volume of SBG fuel stored within the belly tank within these 
rooms. 
In total, a maximum of 724,000 litres (LON1A) and 864,000 litres (LON1B) of liquid fuel can be stored at the 
data centre, and there is no bulk storage of liquid fuel. 
The plant is permitted to operate for less than 500 emergency hours per year, and for less than 50 hours per 
year for the testing of each SBG.  
The on-site surface water drainage system drains all run-off in the area via an oil interceptor, which is 
discharged into the municipal combined sewer system. 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of oxides of nitrogen (NOx), sulphur dioxide, 
particulate matter and carbon monoxide.  
The minimum default generator specification for new plant, to minimise the impacts from NOx emissions to 
air, is 2g-TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or an equivalent standard. All 52 SBGs are emissions optimised to meet 
the US EPA Tier 2 standard.  