 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 15 of 20 
We used worst case assumptions to conduct sensitivity check modelling for the 
testing regime. Following this analysis, we conclude that below adverse impacts 
are likely. This means that noise impacts associated with this variation are 
acceptable. 
No noise management plan has been requested, however permit condition 3.4.2 
enables us to request one if it is considered necessary in the future.  
 
NATIONAL GRID RELIABILITY 
The applicant confirmed that there have been no black outages at the Dagenham 
data centre since commencement of operations. 
In 2023 there were two outages, both due to voltage spikes, which were very 
limited in duration and involved the operation of a small number of LON1A SBGs 
as summarised below: 
• 19/06/2023 – duration outage 14 minutes, resulting in the operation of 
three SBGs; and 
• 25/11/2023 – duration outage 30 minutes, resulting in the operation of two 
SBGs. 
 
PROTECTION OF LAND, SURFACE WATER AND GROUNDWATER 
There are no point source emissions to water or land at the data centre, and no 
changes to emissions to sewer, including the foul and surface water drainage 
systems. The LON1B data centre will be connected into the existing LON1A 
drainage system.  
 
The LON1B tanker refuelling points will be located on the external wall of each 
generator room. Refuelling vehicles will be required to park in the external hard 
surfaced yard area adjacent to the north of LON1B where connections to the 
generator refuelling points will be located. These will be in locked refuelling 
cabinets located on the external wall of the LON1B data centre building; one per 
generator room.  
 
Surface water run-off from the external generator refuelling area will drain via a 
grated drainage channel to the on-site surface water drainage system via an oil 
interceptor (Class 1 full retention). The interceptor will be fitted with an automatic 
closure device and high-level audible alarm system for oil and silt levels. Surface 
water from the interceptor will drain into the on-site surface water drainage 
system. 
 
Also refer to ‘Liquid fuel and raw material storage’ section of this document. 
 