 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 2 of 20 
We consider in reaching that decision we have taken into account all relevant 
considerations and legal requirements and that the permit will ensure that the 
appropriate level of environmental protection is provided. 
Purpose of this document 
This decision document provides a record of the decision-making process. It  
● highlights key issues in the determination 
● summarises the decision making process in the decision considerations 
section to show how the main relevant factors have been taken into 
account 
● explains why we have also made an Environment Agency initiated variation 
● shows how we have considered the consultation responses 
Unless the decision document specifies otherwise, we have accepted the 
applicant’s proposals. 
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit and 
the variation notice.  
Key issues of the decision 
Overview of the installation 
The site is an electronic data storage centre which consists of a Schedule 1 listed 
activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations: 
 
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a): Burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated 
thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW).   
 
The activity falls under Chapter II of the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED). The 
liquid fuelled SBGs are classed as Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) as part of a 
Chapter II installation. The Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 
requirements are fulfilled through compliance with Chapter II of Directive 
2010/75/EU. Operating as new MCPs as part of a Chapter II installation, they will 
be used as back-up generators, only providing power at the site during a power 
outage.  
There are 52 SBGs with a total thermal input capacity of 335.15 MWth, classed 
as ‘new’ MCPs as part of the IED. 
The SBGs will be used solely to generate power for the facility in the event of an 
emergency situation, such as a brown- or black-out of the local electricity 
transmission network. No electricity will be exported from the installation. 