 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 3 of 20 
ASSESSMENT AGAINST BAT 
Engine specification 
We accept that gas oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of NOx emissions to air is 2g TA-Luft or EPA Tier 2 (or equivalent 
standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000 mg/m3. 
The applicant confirmed that the proposed engines are emissions optimised EPA 
Tier 2 compliant. 
The SBGs meet the required standard. We agree with the applicant that the 
engines are BAT for the proposed operation.  
Choice of fuel 
The applicant has proposed to use hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) as the fuel, 
or gas oil when this is unavailable. We agree that HVO is a suitable substitute, 
and the permit authorises its use. 
We are in the process of developing our position on the use of other gas oil 
substitute fuels, therefore we have required that if any of these fuels are 
proposed, written agreement is sought by the operator from the Environment 
Agency’s regulatory officer. 
Table S2.1 of the permit specifies the fuel to burned in the engines to consist of 
gas oil or equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment 
Agency, with a sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w max. 
Liquid fuel and raw material storage 
SBGs and their associated fuel belly tanks and SCR abatement systems will be 
located on the ground floor of the LON1B data centre building in dedicated 
generator rooms. The generator rooms will be contained to 110%. 
LON1B will benefit from impermeable surfacing. 
There are no bulk storage fuel tanks on site, apart from the individual SBG belly 
tanks.  
Fuel will be stored in a bunded belly tank for each SBG. The belly tank is integral 
to the SBG units, being located beneath the base of each unit. The belly tank 
capacity for each SBG is 36m3 (36,000 litres).  
Based on a total of 24 SBGs, a maximum of approximately 864,000 litres of fuel 
can be stored at the LON1B data centre.  