 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 11 of 20 
LON1B commissioning tests 
We predict exceedances of the daily NOx critical level of 200 μg/m3 at two local 
nature sites (ER1 and ER2) for the commissioning scenario. There are however 
high uncertainties associated with building downwash effects. Our sensitivity 
analysis indicates that without building downwash effects, exceedances are 
unlikely. We have a low level of confidence in predictions at these locations, but 
we cannot rule out exceedances. We note that the physical extent of the 
exceedances is limited to a small area to the south of the installation. 
The applicant had not specified how long the commissioning period would be and 
have assumed a full year of operation in their modelling, which may be 
conservative. 
We asked the applicant for further information to provide clarification for the 
commissioning period. They confirmed that the commissioning period would just 
be applicable until the LON1B SBGs were fully commissioned and operational. 
This means that impacts associated with commissioning are not an ongoing 
event, but just cover the time taken to complete the commissioning. 
On the basis of the limited time associated with the commissioning period, 
modelling uncertainties and the small area of exceedance, we are satisfied that 
we do not need to include any additional controls in the permit. 
AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN (AQMP) 
 
We have included an improvement condition which requires the operator to have 
a written AQMP including both the LON1A and LON1B SBGs to manage any 
issues for prolonged emergency running of the plant. 
 
An AQMP will be provided in consultation with the Local Authority. This will 
outline the response measures to be taken in the event of a National Grid failure 
and the operation of the SBGs. This will include consideration of the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual receptors, 
timescales for response measures, considerations of local conditions relevant 
during a grid failure, contingency measures and how this plan will be reviewed. 
EMISSION LIMITS 
As the plant is limited to less than 500 hours of emergency operation per year by 
permit condition 2.3.5 and less than 50 hours per year for maintenance and 
testing in permit table S1.2, air emission limits are not applicable. 