 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 9 of 20 
They therefore requested that the testing limitation was set as follows: 
No other testing at either LON1A or LON1B shall take place within the same day 
as a LON1A black building (4-hour) test. 
LON1A black building tests are limited to a maximum of 4 hours within any 24-
hour period. 
Environment Agency review of applicant’s assessment 
We audited the air quality impact assessment and detailed our findings and 
recommendations in report reference AQMAU-C2845-RP01, dated 04 October 
2024. 
We determined that the risk of exceedance of the CO and PM10 ESs was de 
minimis, therefore, we only considered the impact from NOx emissions in our 
audit. 
We note that the applicant proposes to primarily fuel the SBGs with hydrotreated 
vegetable oil (HVO) but have not precluded the use of diesel where needed. The 
impact assessment assumes that diesel is the primary fuel. We agree that this is 
worst-case as HVO would have lower emissions than diesel. 
The applicant stated that the SCR will not emit ammonia (NH3) via ammonia 
‘slip’, but that additional abatement in the form of ammonia slip catalysts (ASC) 
will be present in the SCR to further prevent the release of NH3. We considered 
the assurances to be sufficient and did not consider NH3 in our audit. 
For the purposes of the daily NOX outputs, the applicant grouped the maximum 
number of SBGs that could be expected to be operated in the same 24-hour 
period into the same model runs. Although not stated in the air quality impact 
assessment, the applicant’s factoring implies that only one test per SBG bank 
(LON1A and LON1B) would be run in any 24-hour period. We have applied this 
assumption in our audit. 
We asked the applicant to provide a summary of their findings of daily NOx PCs, 
to support their suggested testing and limitations (see above). We reviewed the 
additional information setting out impacts for various tests, and the implications 
for limitation or flexibility on combining tests across LON1A and LON1B. We 
agree with their conclusions and have included the necessary limitation in table 
S1.1 of the permit, with a minor change from ‘same day’ to ‘same 24-hour 
period’. 
Refer to ‘PERMIT CONDITIONS’ section of this document. 