 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 13 of 20 
OPERATIONAL HOURS 
We set operational hour limits for data centres at 500 hours per year as they are 
permitted for emergency use only. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours 
is for the installation as a whole i.e. as soon as one SBG starts operating the 
hours count towards the 500 hours.  
The operational hours on the site will be monitored and reported as follows:  
Emergency operation limited to 500 hours per year for the installation via permit 
condition 2.3.5.  
Maintenance and testing regime limited to <50 hours per SBG per year, linked to 
operating techniques table S1.2.  
PERMIT CONDITIONS 
• Permit condition 2.3.5: The permit limits use of SBGs in an emergency 
scenario to 500 hours per year.  
Emission limit values have not been included in the permit for the LON1B SBGs, 
as they are not applicable to MCPs operating for <500 hours per year.  
Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned hours required to come 
off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but 
occurring only within the data centre itself. 
 
• Permit condition 4.2.2: Reporting of SBG maintenance run hours is 
required annually and any electrical outages (planned or grid failures 
regardless of duration) requires both immediate notification to the 
Environment Agency and annual reporting. 
 
• Table S1.1 Activities: Includes necessary additional operational controls. 
 
We have also included limitations on testing and maintenance as follows: 
 
No other testing at either LON1A or LON1B shall take place within the same 24-
hour period as a LON1A black building (4-hour) test. 
 
LON1A black building tests are limited to a maximum of 4 hours within any 24-
hour period. 
 
Also refer to ‘Environment Agency review of applicant’s assessment’ section of 
this document. 
 
• Table S1.2 Operating techniques: Incorporates the testing and 
maintenance scenarios, including routine testing of SBGs at <50 hours per 
year, and relevant technical standards.  