 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 12 of 20 
MONITORING REQUIREMENTS  
All of the 24 LON1B SBGs are classed as new MCPs as they will be brought into 
operation after 20 December 2018. 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission 
points GEN-01-HA to GEN-01-C6/4 for the LON1B SBGs, with a minimum 
frequency of once every 1,500 hours of operation or every five years (whichever 
comes first). This monitoring has been included in the permit in order to comply 
with the requirements of the MCPD, which specifies the minimum requirements 
for monitoring of CO emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the 
plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of NOx from emission points 
GEN-01-HA to GEN-01-C6/4 for the LON1B SBGs, with the same frequency 
specified for the monitoring of CO emissions. In setting out this requirement, we 
have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited 
monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the CO monitoring, is proportionate to 
the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation. 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the SBGs operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and CO, 
we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web guide ‘Monitoring 
stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 20 March 
2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
For the LON1B SBGs (new MCPs), we have set a requirement for the first 
monitoring to happen within 4 months of the issue date of this variation or the 
date when each LON1B SBG is first put into operation, whichever is later (permit 
condition 3.5.2). 
We have also specified continuous process monitoring of levels of NOx from 
emission points GEN-01-HA to GEN-01-C6/4 for the LON1B SBGs because 
these SBGs are fitted with SCR, hence we consider this monitoring necessary to 
ensure the effective operations of the abatement system, to prevent excessive 
ammonia slip and to dose the right amount of AdBlue solution. Because this 
monitoring is not specified to assess compliance with emission limits, we are 
satisfied that it will not require certification to MCERTS standards. 