 
EPR/CP3902LV/V003 
NTT Dagenham Data Centre  Page 4 of 20 
Leak/spill protection measures include fill points located in lockable cabinets 
provided with drip trays, tank level gauges, level alarms, pressure delivery over-
fill prevention valves and leak detection alarms connected to the building 
management system (BMS). 
The SCR abatement AdBlue storage tanks will be located within the bunded 
generator rooms. The applicant confirmed that further details on the AdBlue 
storage arrangements will be provided once details are known. We have set a 
pre-operational condition in the permit to address this. 
The integrity of the fuel and AdBlue storage tanks will be subject to daily visual 
inspection by site personnel as part of routine operations.  
We are satisfied that the fuel storage arrangements are compliant with the 
standards set out in the Oil Storage Regulations Oil storage regulations for 
businesses - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 
Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) 
The applicant confirmed that each of the proposed 24 SBGs will be supplied with 
SCR abatement to reduce NOx emissions to meet the MCPD emission limit for 
NOx of 190 mg/m3 at 15% oxygen. The abatement system will be located within 
each of the bunded generator rooms in LON1B, with each system accompanied 
by an AdBlue bulk storage tank located in the generator room. They confirm that 
the storage arrangements for AdBlue will meet BAT. 
They also confirm that the SCR abatement system has yet to be selected. 
We have included a pre-operational condition requiring submission of the 
necessary information to demonstrate that the SCR abatement system is BAT for 
the installation. 
The permit also includes an improvement condition requiring validation of the 
SCR system and process monitoring for the abatement efficiency for the LON1B 
SBGs. 
Emissions to Air  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10 and PM2.5) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) resulting from the combustion 
process on site.  
We don’t consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. 
In relation to the SBGs fitted with SCR and potential ammonia slip, the 
manufacturer indicates that there is no ammonia slip. As such, ammonia 
emissions have not been assessed. The SCR system being used is described as 