 
Page 12 of 25 
Based on the modelled emergency scenario representing a 72-hour power outage, 
we found that: 
• The 99.79th percentile 1-hour NO2 PCs and PECs could exceed the ES, 
however, statistical analysis using a hypergeometric probability 
distribution indicates that the chance of exceedance is less than 1% 
which we consider highly unlikely. 
For annual impacts, inclusive of both testing and 72 hours of emergency 
operations, we find that: 
• The annual NO
2 PCs are ‘not insignificant’; however, the PECs are all 
below the relevant ES. 
Ecological assessment 
Based on the modelled testing scenario where each engine is tested individually, 
we found that: 
• We cannot rule out exceedances of the daily mean NO
X critical level of 
200 µg/m 3 during the annual test where all 13 generators are tested 
individually for one hour within the same 24- hour period, should 
operations coincide with worst-case meteorological conditions. Note that 
this is a once -a-year event and predicted exceedances are s mall, 
therefore, we consider exceedances to be unlikely. 
• For the monthly test, the daily mean NO X PCs are unlikely to cause an 
exceedance of the daily mean NO X critical level of 200 µg/m 3 provided 
no more than five engines are tested within a single day.  
• The BAT Assessment1 for Colt Powergate states that each data hall is 
tested on separate weeks (Table 4.1). The largest data hall contains five 
generators, so there will be no more than five hours of testing in a single 
day. 
• We have modelled the 100
th percentile 1-hour NOX PC and assumed 
that this PC occurs for five hours within a 24- hour period to calculate a 
reasonable worst-case daily mean NO X PC. Our daily mean NO X PCs 
are not predicted to exceed the critical level of 200 µg/m3. 
Based on the modelled emergency scenario representing a 72-hour power outage, 
we find that: 
• The daily mean NOX PCs could exceed the 200 µg/m3 critical level at the 
Silverlink Metro and Dudding Hill Loop LWS, Wesley Playing Fields LWS 
and London’s Canals LWS should prolonged emergency operations 
coincide with worst -case meteorological conditions, however, we 
consider exceedances to be unlikely provided grid reliability remains 
high. 
For annual impacts, inclusive of both testing and 72 hours of emergency 
operations, we find that: 
 
1 Colt Powergate Data Centre – Best Available Technique Assessment – DP3107LF, reference 10290863, 
data June 2022. 