 
Page 24 of 25 
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: UKHSA  
Brief summary of issues raised: The applicant has modelled emissions for two 
scenarios. There is reference to a third scenario, but no details are provided. The 
scenarios should accurately reflect the likely operating conditions for the 
generators. The outputs of the modelled nitrogen dioxide 1 hour mean process 
contributions have not been provided for either of the modelled scenarios. The 
PM10 24 hour air quality standard is predicted to be exceeded at two locations 
for scenario 2 (power outage). The overall cumulative impact should be 
considered for all permitted combustion activities in the local area. 
Summary of actions taken: A
 n updated air quality assessment was submitted 
with revised modelling scenarios, and a revised non-technical summary 
document with greater detail about the proposed generator testing regimes. We 
are satisfied that these accurately represent the likely operating conditions of the 
generators. The revised air quality assessment also provided process 
contributions for 1-hour NO
2. We have assessed that emergency operation 