Permit number             
EPR/AB1234CD 12 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
The operator shall produce an AQMP in conjunction with the Local 
Authority outlining response measures to be taken in the event of a 
grid failure. This should include but not be limited to the following 
considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at 
individual receptors;  
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit 
the duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours as far as 
possible; 
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
 
Within 6 months 
from the date of 
issue of the permit 
EPR/DP3107LF 
IC2 Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of 
the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in table S3.1, in line 
with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and 
specified generators’ Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as 
TGN M5). The plan shall include, but not necessarily be limited to: 
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a 
proposal to install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints 
affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed 
deviation from the testing regime specified in permit table 
S3.1.  
 
Within 3 months 
from the date of 
issue of the permit 
EPR/DP3107LF 
IC3 Drainage and containment 
 
The operator shall submit a revised drainage plan covering the entire 
site to the Environment Agency for approval.  
The site drainage plan shall  
• be drawn to scale 
• outlines and differentiates the exact locations of all subsurface 
drainage routes (surface water and foul sewer),  
• be annotated with all emission points for aqueous discharges 
off-site and on-site oil interceptors.  
 
In the event the drainage plan indicates there are surface water 
discharges from the facility which do not pass through an oil 
interceptor prior to discharge. The operator shall submit to the 
Environment Agency proposals and timescale for directing drainage to 
an oil interceptor prior to discharge off-site. 
Within 6 months 
from the date of 
issue of the permit 
EPR/DP3107LF 