 
Page 8 of 25 
• Short Term NO2: 1-hour mean NO2 concentrations are predicted to 
exceed the associated ES at 13 receptor locations during the emergency 
scenario.  
• Short Term PM10: 24-hour mean PM10 concentrations are predicted to 
exceed the associated ES at 2 receptor locations.  
 
• AEGL-1: Predicted NO2 concentrations were below the relevant AEGL-1 
at 8 of the 14 sensitive receptor locations over the modelled 5 year period 
for all exposure periods considered. Exceedances were predicted at the 
remaining 6 sensitive receptor locations. 
 
• Short Term NO: The PC proportion of the ES is less than 10% at 5 
receptor locations and the PEC is less than 20% at 8 locations sensitive to 
short term-term exposure. As such, impacts can be screened out as not 
significant in accordance with the initial stage of the Environment Agency 
screening criteria  
 
Ecological Impact 
Testing and maintenance scenario 
• Long Term: The NOx PC is less than 1% of the ES at both Special 
Area of Conservation (SAC) receptor locations (ER3 Richmond Park, 
ER4 Wimbledon Common) and less than 100% at all Local Nature 
Reserve (LNR) / Sites of Importance for Nature Conservation (SINC) 
receptor locations. As such, impacts on annual mean NOx 
concentrations at these locations can be screened out as insignificant in 
accordance with the initial stage of the Environment Agency screening 
criteria.  
 
• Short Term: The NO
x PC proportion of the adopted ES is less than 
10% at both SAC receptor locations (ER3 Richmond Park, ER4 
Wimbledon Common) and less than 100% at 19 (out of 24) LNR/SINC 
receptor locations. As such, impacts on 24-hour mean NOx 
concentrations at these locations can be screened out as insignificant in 
accordance with the initial stage of the Environment Agency screening 
criteria. At the remaining 5 LNR/SINC receptor locations (ER5 - ER7 
Wesley Playing Fields and ER8 - ER9 Grand Union Canal), the PC 
proportion of the ES is above 100%. As such, impacts on 24-hour mean 
NO
x concentrations cannot be screened as insignificant in accordance 
with the Environment Agency screening criteria. Predicted 
concentrations are considered to represent a worst-case scenario 
whereby the worst meteorological conditions overlap with the testing 
period.  
 