 
Page 13 of 25 
• Annual NOX, acid and nutrient nitrogen deposition PCs are predicted to 
be ‘insignificant’ compared to the relevant critical levels and loads. 
 
Assessment of Best Available Techniques 
Technology, Configuration, Sizing and Choice of Fuel  
The applicant carried out a BAT assessment of the following viable technologies: 
fuel oil (diesel) fired generators, gas fired generators, Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) 
Fuelled Generator s and Hydrogen Fuel Cell generators. For each type of 
generator, consideration was given to the following criteria: 
• Proven technology for providing reliable power supply 
• Start-up time & cold start capability 
• Space requirements 
• Capital expenditure 
• Environmental impact 
• Fuel storage 
 
The conclusion of the assessment was that Gas and fuel oil generators are the 
preferred method for back up electricity generation at this site. Colt have 
decided to install diesel generators at this installation as they outperform Gas 
generators when comparing their cold start capability and their reliability in 
providing an uninterruptible power supply, due to no reliance on an off -site 
supply of natural gas. 
Ultra-low sulphur gas oil is considered to be the most appropriate fuel choice 
due to ease/safety of storage, availability and costs associated with upkeep, 
storage and supply.   
We have specified the fuel to burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with 
a sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing 
our position on the use gas oil substitute fuels such as hydrotreated vegetable 
oil (HVO), therefore we have required that if any of these fuels are proposed, 
written agreement is sought by the operator from the Environment Agency’s 
regulatory officer. 
The default engine specification as a minimum for new plant, to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air (NO
x), is 2g TA -Luft, Tier II US EPA or equivalent 
standard.  The ‘new MCP’ generator s (emitting via emission point s EP4 and 
EP9- EP13), are  2g TA -Luft emissions optimised as per the datasheet s, 
meeting the BAT requirements.  All other generators (emitting via emission 
points EP1-3 and EP5 – EP8), were put into operation before 2018, meaning 
they are classified as ‘existing MCP’.  They do not meet the 2g TA -Luft or 
equivalent standard. 