 
Page 15 of 25 
Power to the site is provided by the National Grid. The substation powering the 
installation has two feeds (A & B). Each feed can support the full site load, 
meaning that if one feed was to fail, electrical provision to the installation would 
not be compromised. Two power supplies are beneficial, as the site would not 
need to utilise the generators should one main power feed undergo a fault, be 
accidentally or maliciously damaged or be shut down.  Furthermore, we note that 
the National Grid give an 8-year average network reliability of 99.99995%. 
Permit Conditions 
The permit limits use of generators in an emergency scenario to 500 hours per 
year.  Routine testing of generators is <50 hours per year, with the operating 
techniques incorporated into Table S1.2 in the permit.  Emission limit values have 
not been incorporated into the permit, as they are not applicable to MCPs 
operating for <500 hours per year. 
Monitoring requirements are included in the permit; stack monitoring is included 
for NO
x and CO every 1500 hours of operation or once every five years 
(whichever comes first). The first monitoring measurements for the new MCP 
(EP4 and EP9-EP13) shall be carried out within four months of the issue date of 
the permit or the date when the MCP is first put into operation, whichever is later. 
For the existing MCP (EP1-EP3 and EP5-EP8) the first monitoring 
measurements can be undertaken at any time, but no later than the relevant 
compliance date of 01/01/2030. 
Limits to the AR1 activity within the permit exclude any elective power operation 
such as Short-Term Operating Reserve (STOR) and triad management activities. 
Table S1.2 incorporates operational and management procedures within the 
Non-Technical Summary V2, minimising the duration of testing, the duration and 
frequency of whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and most 
importantly times/ days to avoid adding to any high ambient pollutant background 
levels. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the reliability of 
the local electricity grid distribution allowing us to judge that the realistic likelihood 
of the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode is 
very low. 
Tables S4.2 and S4.3 require annual reporting of standby engine maintenance 
run and any electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) 
require both immediate notification to the Environment Agency and annual 
reporting. 
Table S2.1 restricts the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent substitute as 
agreed in writing with the Environment Agency. 