 
Page 4 of 25 
Generators and fuel tanks are located above-ground. The 7 existing generators 
and 1 of the new generators are supplied directly by 4 x bulk fuel storage tanks 
which are adjacent to the generators. Two of these tanks are externally bunded. 
The other 2 are double skinned to 110% capacity.  The remaining 5 new 
generators will be served by 5 x double skinned day tanks bunded to 110% 
capacity, which are fed from 3 x integrally bunded bulk tanks, also located 
adjacent to the generators. Each day and bulk storage tank have leak detection 
and overfill alarms. Fuel transfer from bulk tanks to the generators is via double 
skinned above-ground pipework. The total fuel storage capacity is 368,222 litres. 
The site is covered in hardstanding.  
Air Quality Assessment   
Our online guidance (“Air emissions risk assessment for your environmental 
permit”, gov.uk) sets out how air emissions risk assessments should be 
completed, by calculating the impact of emissions and comparing against 
appropriate environmental standards. 
The applicant submitted air dispersion modelling as part of their Air Quality 
Impact Assessment, which allowed the process contribution (PC) to be predicted 
at any human and ecological receptor that could be impacted by the operation of 
the Schedule 1 Part A(1) 1.1(a) activity. 
The PC is the estimated concentration of an emitted substance, and when 
calculated within a dispersion model, takes into account relevant parameters of 
the release and surrounding conditions, including local meteorology. 
Once short-term and long-term PCs have been calculated, they are compared 
with Environmental Standards (ES). 
PCs are considered insignificant if: 
• The long-term PC is less than 1% of the relevant ES; and 
• The short-term PC is less than 10% of the relevant ES. 
The long term 1% PC insignificance threshold is based on the judgements that: 
• It is unlikely that an emission at this level will make a significant 
contribution to air quality; and 
• The threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and 
the environment. 
The short term 10% insignificance threshold is based on the judgements that: 