Permit number             
EPR/AB1234CD 2 
Colt - Powergate  
Permit number EPR/DP3107LF 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is a data centre which consists of an Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) Schedule 1 listed 
activity: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1) (a) for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW). 
The permit authorises the operation of standby electricity generating plant at a data centre located within the 
London Borough of Ealing at national grid reference TQ 20971 82811. The data centre will under normal 
operating conditions be powered by grid supplied electricity. 
The contingency standby power solution comprises 3 x 4.17MWth, 1 x 2.86MWth, 3 x 4.27MWth, 1 x 
4.3MWth and 5 x 5.9MWth liquid fuelled generators with an aggregated thermal input of approximately 
62MWth. Seven generators have been operational since 2001 and are classified as existing medium 
combustion plant (MCP). The remaining 6 generators are classified as new MCP and are emissions 
optimised 2g TA-luft. The power solution is integrated within the data centre design providing on-site 
electrical generating capacity to be used in the event of power outages to the data centre.  
The generators can operate on either gas oil or an agreed equivalent substitute.  
The standby electricity generating plant is limited to operating less than 500 hours/year, including the testing 
regime. It is estimated that each engine will be tested for approximately 12.5 hours/year. It is essential that 
the standby system is routinely tested to ensure the engines function correctly in the event of them being 
required to operate. 
Each engine will be tested at off/low load (0% for up to 15 minutes) once every 6 months. 
Each engine will be tested individually at building load (up to. 50% for up to one hour) every month. 
The 7 existing generators and 1 of the new generators are supplied directly by 4 x bulk fuel storage tanks 
which are adjacent to the generators. Two of these tanks are externally bunded to 110% capacity. The other 
2 are double skinned to 110% capacity.  The remaining 5 new generators will be served by 5 x double 
skinned and bunded day tanks, which are fed from 3 x integrally bunded bulk tanks, also located adjacent to 
the generators. Each day and bulk storage tank has leak detection and overfill alarms. Fuel transfer from 
bulk tanks to the generators is via double skinned above-ground pipework. The total fuel storage capacity is 
368,222 litres.  
Exhaust gases from each generator will be discharged through an individual vertical flue resulting in 13 
emission points EP1 to EP13. 
There will be no process effluent discharge from the installation. Uncontaminated surface water run- off from 
the roof and hard-standing will drain to the surface water drainage system at emission points SW1 to SW4. 
Surface water drainage from the area of the site where the new generators and associated fuel storage are 
located will pass via an oil-water separator before reaching emission point SW4. The remaining areas of the 
site drain into emissions points SW1 to SW3 without passing through a separator.  
The installation is located within Powergate Business Park. As such the immediate surrounding area is 
predominately industrial and commercial. There are however residential receptors nearby. There are no 
Local Nature Reserves within 1 km of the Site and no Sites of Special Scientific Interest within 2km of the 
Site. There are 2 protected European sites within 10km, however no significant environmental impact from 
the installation is expected at these. The London Borough of Ealing has designated the area an Air Quality 
Management Area (AQMA) for exceeding the annual mean NO
2 objective and the 24-hour mean PM10 