 
Page 2 of 25 
Key issues of the decision 
In reaching our decision to grant the permit we took into consideration the 
following matters: 
Overview of the Installation   
The installation is located within the London Borough of Ealing at national grid 
reference TQ 20971 82811, in Powergate Business park, an area of industrial 
and commercial developments.  
The site is an existing data centre that has been operational since 2001. There 
are seven existing engines at the site that have been operational since before 
2010. Proposed expansion works resulted in the addition of six new engines in 
2023. 
The permit authorises the operation of 13 standby liquid fuelled generators 
serving a data centre, in the event of failure in the electrical grid supply.
 The 
generators are not permitted to support Short-Term Operating Reserve (STOR) 
and/or triad management activities. The permit does not allow the export of 
electricity to the National Grid.   
The contingency standby power solution comprises 3 x 4.17MWth, 1 x 
2.86MWth, 3 x 4.27MWth, 1 x 4.3MWth and 5 x 5.9MWth generators with an 
aggregated thermal input of approximately 62MWth. They will be fuelled with gas 
oil (or equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency) 
with a maximum sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w. Each generator has a 
stack between 10.5 and 13.63 m in height. 
The installation is subject to the Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) as 
it carries out an activity listed in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the EPR:   
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal 
input of 50 megawatts or more.   
The activity falls under Chapter II of the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED). The 
liquid fuelled generators are classed as medium combustion plant (MCP) as part 
of a Chapter II installation. The Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 
requirements are fulfilled through compliance with Chapter II of Directive 
2010/75/EU.  
The incoming power system has been designed to reduce the likelihood of power 
outages at the installation and consists of two separate cables originating at one 
substation.  Each feed can support the full site load, meaning that if one feed was 
to fail electrical provision to the installation would not be compromised. 