 
Page 16 of 25 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
Fuel is stored in bulk fuel tanks which are located externally, above ground on 
cement plinths. Due to the nature of the site being part legacy generators 
(operational since 2001) and part new generators, bulk tank specifications differ 
across the site. Three existing generators and one new generator are fed by ISC 
bulk tank 1 and 2. Four existing generators are fed by FDC bulk tank 1 and 2. 
The remaining five new generators are fed by bulk tanks IDC5-7, via individual 
day tanks. There are no receiver/day tanks for existing ISC and FDC generators. 
Fuel is fed from bulk tanks to the generators / day tanks via double skinned 
above ground pipework. 
Each bulk tank is fitted with a digital OLE electronic gauge which can be read at 
the tank or remotely via the monitoring system. These will produce an alert in the 
event of overfill or leakage.  
The ISC tanks are double skinned with integral bunding. These tanks conform to 
BS 799, and are manufactured with steel conforming to BS EN 1025 and fuel 
pipework is double skinned and conforms to BS1387.  
The FDC tanks are bunded to 110%. These tanks conform to BS 799 pat 5 type J 
2010 and are manufactured with steel conforming to BS 4360 43A.  
The new IDC5-7 bulk tanks are to be integrally bunded to 110%. Overfill 
Prevention Valves (OPV) are to be fitted to the tank fill line to help prevent 
overfilling. Leak detect float switches will be provided within tank bunds should 
the primary tank become compromised. 
The existing ISC and FDC bulk tanks are refuelled via connections in 
independent fill point cabinets. The fill points for both ISC and the FDC tanks are 
located within lockable cabinets and are accessed from the pavement on Volt 
Avenue. These fill points are currently external to the site boundary. Drip trays 
are present to capture minor spills. Within the fill cabinet there are pneumatic 
gauges to measure tank levels as well as tank overfill prevention controls/alarms, 
which are connected to the monitoring system.  
Surface water arising from the areas of the site where the legacy ISC and FDC 
bulk tanks are located drains into three surface water emission points SW1 to 
SW3. It does not pass through any form of interceptor before reaching these 
emission points. Improvement condition IC3 has been added to the permit to 
address this. 