 
Page 17 of 25 
The new IDC 5-7 bulk tanks will be refuelled by one independent fill point cabinet 
with three manual level operated fill valves. The cabinet is lockable and there is a 
drip tray to capture minor spills. A forecourt separator is to be installed near the 
bulk tanks which will capture fuel spills that manage to enter the surface water 
drains. The larger bulk tanks feed individual day tanks for each of the ID5-7 
generators. As a result, there will be five bunded and double skinned day tanks 
fitted within the new generator enclosures. Each tank will be fitted with an OLE 
gauge to provide detailed fuel level information. The tank bund will incorporate a 
leak detect float switch to alarm if a leak is detected.  
Fuel consumption is low at this installation due to the plant being used for 
emergency back-up power generation only. Fuel deliveries are on average less 
than once per year. When required, refuelling is carried out by trained fuel tanker 
drivers, and supervised by a trained member of the site engineering team. A 
standard operating procedure (SOP) is in place to facilitate refuelling activities to 
reduce the risk of a spillage during refuelling. 
The SOP for the refuelling of the ISC and FDC tanks requires the use of spill kits 
and drain covers as these fill points are located outside the site boundary on Volt 
Avenue. These controls are intended to reduce the risk of fuel spillages (e.g. 
during refuelling) entering the drainage network for the estate. Regular periodic 
visual checks for leaks / spills are also undertaken. 
We are satisfied that the fuel storage arrangements meet our Oil storage 
regulations for businesses guidance requirements. 
Noise Impact 
A Noise Impact Assessment (NIA) was provided by the applicant. However, we 
conducted a noise appraisal to indicate the sound impacts associated with the 
installation.  We reviewed the requirement for a full noise impact assessment 
using our qualitative noise screening criteria.  Based on the nature and location 
of the installation, the limited hours of operation and proposed noise mitigation 
measure, we anticipate that the risk of noise impacts will not be significant. The 
assessment therefore concluded that a full NIA and Noise Management Plan 
(NMP) are not required for this application. As such the NIA provided with the 
application has not been technically assessed. 
Routine operation of the generators for testing purposes will only occur during the 
daytime, when residual and background sound levels are naturally higher.  As 
sustained operation of the engines should occur only infrequency this limits the 
potential for impact from the generators.  We consider the likelihood of prolonged 
outages to be low. 
The following measures will be in place to reduce potential noise impacts from 
the installation: 