 
Page 11 of 25 
We agree with the consultant’s conclusions regarding ecological sites, however, 
we cannot rule out exceedances of the higher daily mean NOX critical level of 200 
µg/m3 during the annual test, should these operations coincide with worst-case 
meteorological conditions. However, as this is a once-a-year event and the 
exceedances are small, we consider exceedances to be unlikely. We agree that 
exceedances of this critical level are not predicted during monthly testing. 
We agree that exceedances of any pollutant are unlikely due to emergency 
operations provided the grid reliability remains high. The modelled electrical 
outages likely represent worst case scenarios as the operator stated in their BAT 
Assessment V2 that, ‘The substation powering the installation has two feeds (A & 
B). Each feed can support the full site load, meaning that if one feed was to fail, 
electrical provision to the installation would not be compromised. A site wide 
failure is considered extremely rare as it would require a catastrophic regional 
failure on the grid, or at the supplying power station, and would likely impact not 
only the site but the surrounding London area. 
The applicant also stated that in the last eight years the Powergate site has had 
high levels of grid reliability, only experiencing micro-outages or ‘blips’ that last 
less than 0.1 second. 
We noted that: 
• For the assessment of NO
x impact on ecosystems the consultant adopted 
the lower critical level of 75 μg/m3.  The higher critical level of 200 μg/m3 is 
appropriate for use at all ecological receptors identified in this assessment, 
where PECs are shown to exceed the lower critical level of 75 μg/m
3 (in 
accordance with internal guidance AQTAG21).  
• We found that the consultant could be underpredicting 1-hour NO PCs as 
they explain that PCs have been averaged over the whole year, rather 
than reporting a reasonable worst-case hourly maximum. We included an 
assessment of maximum 1-hour NO impacts in our checks to address this. 
 
• For the emergency scenario 1-hour CO and 24-hour benzene PCs were 
not assessed, however these were considered in our audit. 
 
The specific findings of our check modelling are summarised below: 
Human health assessment 
Based on the modelled testing scenario where each engine is tested individually, 
we found that: 
• The 99.79th percentile 1-hour NO2, NO2 AEGL-1s, and 1-hour NO PCs 
are ‘not insignificant’; however, the PECs are all below the relevant ES.  