 
Page 7 of 25 
• Long Term NO2:  Predicted annual mean NO2 concentrations inclusive of 
background levels (i.e. PECs) are less than 100% of the ES and can be 
screened out as not significant in accordance with the Environment 
Agency screening criteria. 
• Short Term NO2: The predicted NO2 PC concentrations were below the 
relevant EQS at 9 of the 14 sensitive receptor locations and the PEC 
remained below the EQS at 8 of the 14 sensitive receptor locations for all 
meteorological data sets.1-hour mean NO
2 concentrations are predicted to 
exceed 200 µg/m3 at 6 receptor locations. Results represent a worst-case 
scenario of the meteorological conditions within the full 5 years of 
meteorological data used. For the predicted exceedances to occur these 
worst-case conditions would need to coincide with a generator testing 
event.  Further analysis was undertaken to determine the potential 
likelihood of these theoretical peaks occurring. This concluded that 
receptors R1, R2, R3, R4, R5 and R6 are only predicted to experience 
hourly NO
2 concentrations above the ES for between 1.1 and 6.8 hours a 
year.  
• AEGL-1: Predicted short term NO2 concentrations have also been 
compared to US EPA Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGLs).  They 
are used for the assessment of sub-hourly impacts to human health 
receptors and represent threshold exposure limits for the general public. 
Predicted concentrations were below the relevant AEGL-1 at all sensitive 
receptor locations over the modelled 5-year period for all exposure periods 
considered. 
• Short Term NO: The predicted PC is less than 10% of the associated ES 
at all receptor locations sensitive to short term-term exposure. As such, 
impacts on 1-hour mean NO concentrations at this location can be 
screened out as insignificant in accordance with the Environment Agency 
screening criteria. 
 
Emergency Scenario 
This scenario assumed that all generators will be operational for a continual 
period of 72 hours and operating concurrently. This Scenario was undertaken at 
site load (assumed to be 50%). 
• Long Term NO
2:  Predicted annual mean NO2 concentrations inclusive of 
background levels (i.e. PECs) are less than 100% of the ES and can be 
screened out as not significant in accordance with the Environment 
Agency screening criteria. 
 