 
Page 14 of 25 
The site partly operates with N+1 resilience in accordance with the Uptime 
Institute’s Tier III design and partly with N after any failure in accordance with 
Uptime Institute’s Tier IV design.  Generators share the load in the event of an 
emergency scenario, and therefore can still operate if one engine begins to fail.  
Furthermore, during maintenance of one generator, the others can provide full 
cover in an emergency scenario. 
Routine Testing 
Duration of testing must be minimised, with operators seeking to keep individual 
generator testing to below 50 hours per annum each.  Testing should be 
scheduled to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant background levels. 
In addition, the operator proposes to undertake testing at alternate times of the 
week to the adjacent data centre on the industrial park. 
To minimise short impacts from routine testing, the operator has proposed the 
following regime: 
• Off load testing:  Each generator will be tested individually for 15mins at 
0% load. This will occur every 6 months (twice per year). Total hours per 
generator per year = 0.5. 
• B uilding load test: Each generator will be tested individually for one hour at 
the current generators load, depending on which of the three data halls it 
serves. Each different data hall will be tested on a different week, so no 
more than 5 engines will be tested in a single week. Once a year the 
monthly test will be replaced an annual test that will see all 13 generators 
tested consecutively in a single day. Total hours per generator per year = 
12  
Generators will not be tested simultaneously; they will be tested during the day 
avoiding peak traffic times (when background NOx levels would be at their 
highest).  As a result of the testing regime, each generator will run for no more 
than 12.5 hours per year for routine testing. 
Electrical Reliability 
As the operation of generators is considered undesirable, the incoming power 
system was designed to ensure that only the most major power outages would 
trigger the need for the generators to be used to support the data centre. 
Initially when a fault is detected an ‘uninterruptible power supply’ is provided by 
on-site battery arrays to cover any potential loss or deduction in the supply to 
data servers. 