 
Page 10 of 25 
Emergency scenario 
• Long term: The NOx PC is less than 1% of the ES at both SAC receptor 
locations (ER3 Richmond Park, ER4 Wimbledon Common) and less than 
100% at all LNR/SINC receptor locations. As such, impacts on annual 
mean NOx concentrations at these locations can be screened out as 
insignificant in accordance with the initial stage of the Environment Agency 
screening criteria. 
• Short term: The PC proportion of the ES is less than 10% at 1 SAC 
receptor location (ER4 Wimbledon Common) and less than 100% at 17 
(out of 24) LNR/SINC receptor locations. As such, impacts on 24-hour 
mean NOx concentrations at these locations can be screened out as 
insignificant in accordance with the initial stage of the Environment Agency 
screening criteria. At the remaining 1 SAC (ER3 Richmond Park) and the 
7 LNR/SINC receptor locations (ER5-ER9
 Wesley Playing Fields and 
Grand Union Canal , ER14 The Canal Feeder, ER26 North Acton 
Cemetery), the PC proportion of the ES are above 1% and 100% 
respectively. As such, impacts on 24-hour mean NOx concentrations 
cannot be screened as insignificant in accordance with the Environment 
Agency screening criteria. Predicted concentrations are considered to 
represent a worst case scenario where by the worst meteorological 
conditions overlap with the testing period. 
• Nitrogen and Acid Deposition: The PC proportion of the Low and High 
ESs for both nitrogen and acid deposition is less than 1% at both SAC 
receptor locations (ER3 Richmond Park, ER4 Wimbledon Common) and 
less than 100% at all LNR/SINC receptor locations. As such, impacts on 
annual mean nitrogen and acid deposition rates at these locations can be 
screened out as insignificant in accordance with the initial stage of the 
Environment Agency screening criteria. 
Environment Agency review of operator assessment of potential impact on 
air quality 
We audited the dispersion modelling and Air Quality Impact Assessment, 
carrying out check modelling and sensitivity analysis.  We reviewed the selection 
of modelling inputs, methodologies and assumptions, selection of receptors, 
outputs of the model, statistical interpretations, and conclusions of the 
assessment. 
We agree with the consultant’s conclusions regarding human health as their 
numerical predictions and statistical analysis indicates that exceedances of the 
relevant environmental standards are unlikely at sensitive human health receptor 
locations during both testing and emergency operations. 