 
Page 21 of 25 
We consider that the emission limits included in the installation permit reflect the 
BAT for the sector. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit 
values in line with technical guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will 
aid the delivery of national air quality targets. We do not consider that we need to 
include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Table S2.1 specifies that the gas oil (or equivalent fuel agreed by the 
Environment Agency) for fuelling generators must have a sulphur content lower 
than 0.001%. 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. We have included the following Improvement 
Conditions: 
IC1 requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) in 
conjunction with the Local Authority.  This outlines any measures to be taken in 
the event of a National Grid failure and identifies trigger points during an 
emergency where the Environment Agency and Local Authority should be 
notified.  This improvement condition is included in all data centre permits as 
standard. 
IC2 requires the operator to submit a monitoring plan for approval outlining their 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in Table S3.1, in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs 
and specified generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN 
M5). 
IC3 requires the operator to submit a revised drainage plan for approval outlining 
proposals and timescales for directing the drainage to an oil interceptor prior to 
discharge off site. This is to address the areas of the site draining into emission 
points SW1 to SW3 that currently do not pass through a separator.  
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 