 
                       Page 6 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Our checks indicate that both long-term and short-term NO PCs are insignificant 
for the testing scenarios and, taking background concentrations into account, 
PECs are less than 100% of the relevant environmental standards for the 
emergency scenario.  
We agree with the conclusions of the applicant’s ecological assessment, which 
are based on the results presented in section 9 of the air quality report and the 
supplementary Technical Note, and can be summarised as follows:   
• PCs are less than 1% of the annual NO
X critical level (CLe) at 
designated ecological receptors and below 100% of the CLe for local 
conservation sites for the testing scenarios and are therefore 
considered to be insignificant.  Impacts of acid and nutrient nitrogen 
deposition are also insignificant at all receptors.  
• for the testing scenarios, PCs are less than 10% of the daily NO
X CLe 
at designated ecological receptors and below 100% of the CLe for local 
conservation sites.  
• for the theoretical emergency scenario, the daily NO
X PCs are not 
insignificant.  The operator used statistical analysis to show that the 
probability of an exceedance of the CLe is highly unlikely. 
We are satisfied that the applicant’s air dispersion modelling assessment is 
conservative and we agree with the applicant’s conclusions regarding ecological 
impacts for all testing and the emergency scenarios.  
We agree that the emergency scenario is presented as a theoretical worst-case 
and is not permitted as a normal operation.  It is representative of an emergency 
operation allowed to happen only in the unlikely event of failure of electrical 
supply from the grid.  Measures are in place at the site to prevent and 
manage/mitigate the occurrence of this emergency operation.  The primary 
prevention measure relied upon to avoid this emergency scenario occurring is the 
highly reliable design of the electrical grid and of the site connections to it 
(described in the BAT section below).  The requirement to run the back-up 
generators in an emergency is therefore minimised as far as possible and a 72-
hour outage scenario is considered highly unlikely.   
Based on the information reviewed, we consider that aerial emissions associated 
with operations of the proposed installation will not cause exceedances of the 
applicable environmental standards and will not affect any site of nature 
conservation and protected species or habitats identified. 
 
Noise  
The site will only run the generators regularly as part of the testing regimes 
described earlier, occurring during daytime hours.  Overnight operation of the 