 
                       Page 9 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft or Tier II US EPA, or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at 5% reference oxygen 
and normal conditions.  
 
The generators are in the process of being installed at the site, six in May 2023 
and six in June 2023.  The operator confirmed that they will be supplied with the 
emissions optimised engine management software already installed, i.e. 
compliant with the US EPA Tier 2 standard, which represents BAT.  However at 
the time of application determination the compliance certificates were not yet 
available from the supplier for the specific engines.  We have therefore included 
improvement condition IC3 that requires the operator to provide evidence that the 
generators have been remapped to comply with BAT emissions standards (i.e. 
TA Luft 2g or US EPA Tier II or an equivalent standard). 
 
The engines exhaust emissions from each generator is mixed with engine cooling 
air before being discharged to atmosphere via vertical stacks approximately 15m 
above ground level. 
 
The choice and configuration of back up energy plant is driven by the data centre 
design i.e. matching the number and size of the standby generators to the power 
supply requirements of the data centre (critical IT loads and associated 
supporting infrastructure, such as cooling equipment).  The operator’s design 
allows for single generators, matched to individual power stream load demand, to 
activate in the event of a single power stream failure instead of a larger generator 
activating to accommodate a similar failure, or multiple power streams, thus 
minimising emissions.  The data centre will operate with N+1 standby generators 
to provide the required level of redundancy for resilience during maintenance.   
 
The incoming power system was designed to ensure that only the most major 
power outages would trigger the operation of the generators.  There are two 
separate power feeds to the site.  If either of the power feeds is unavailable due 
to damage, fault or maintenance, the on-site power system will be re-aligned 
without needing to engage the standby generators.  The site also has an 
uninterruptible power supply comprising a battery bank that provides short-term 
power should the input power source fail. 
 
Testing and maintenance will not be undertaken during peak-traffic periods e.g. 
between 16:00 to 19:00 and there will be no simultaneous testing of 2 or more 
engines.  Furthermore, testing and maintenance will be undertaken in 
accordance with the operator’s management procedure mentioned above that 
ensures no more than one generator will be operated at a time across this and 
other Virtus data centres in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and Virtus Slough 
Campus Data Centres). 
 
We are satisfied that the installation meets BAT relevant to the permitted 
operation.  
 