 
                       Page 16 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations 
and our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have 
considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from UK Health Security Agency. 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
1. Recommendation that two sensitive human receptor locations which are 
not referenced within the applicant’s air quality assessment are 
considered. 
2. Recommendation that the modelling of the stack height is appropriate. 
3. Recommendation that the noise impact assessment is considered when 
available. 
4. Recommendation that a cumulative assessment for health impacts be 
undertaken that takes account of other applications for data centres within 
the same trading estate. 
 
Summary of actions taken: 
As described in more detail in the Air Quality section above, we audited the 
applicant’s air quality assessment, including undertaking detailed check 
modelling and completing sensitivity analysis.  The stack height within the 
submitted reports match those used within the applicant’s modelling files.  This 
modelling forms the basis of their results and conclusions.  We included sensitive 
human receptors which were not included by the applicant and are satisfied that 
worst-case emissions from the site will not cause an exceedance of the relevant 
ES at all receptors. 
In conclusion, we are satisfied that no significant effects on human health are 
likely from the operation of the proposed installation.   
With regard to the recommendation that the overall cumulative impact is 
considered for other similar activities in the locality at application stage, we 
requested the operator provide a site management procedure that considers 
routine testing of standby generators across the three Virtus application data 
centre sites in the locality (this site and the LON9 Data Centre and Virtus Slough 
Campus Data Centres).  The procedure ensures that no more than one generator 