 
                       Page 13 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 
in the environmental permit. 
Use of conditions other than those from the template 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we do not need to 
include conditions other than those in our permit template. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018.  By setting emission limit 
values in line with technical guidance, or by imposing a limit to the operational 
hours through the permit conditions, we are minimising emissions to air.  This will 
aid the delivery of national air quality targets.  We do not consider that we need 
to include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. 
We have included an improvement condition IC1 that requires the operator to 
develop an air quality management plan in conjunction with the Local Authority.  
The plan should consider and co-ordinate measures taken at other Virtus data 
centres operating in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and Virtus Slough Campus 
Data Centres). 
We have included an improvement programme (IC2) on monitoring of emissions 
(see ‘Monitoring’ section below). 
We have included improvement condition IC3 that requires the operator to 
provide evidence that the generators have been remapped to comply with BAT 
emissions standards (i.e. TA Luft 2g or US EPA Tier II or an equivalent 
standard). 
We have included improvement condition IC4 that requires the operator to install 
shut-off valves with oil detection prior to the discharge point into each soakaway.   
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 