 
                       Page 5 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
and continuously for 72 hours, i.e. 72 hours of operation per generator in 
total. 
The operator considered continuous monitoring and diffusion tube measurements 
in the vicinity of the site and used the highest background concentration from the 
closest background monitoring locations in the assessment.  Where relevant, 
background concentrations at ecological receptors have been derived from the 
UK Air Pollution Information System (APIS) database. 
We have audited the air dispersion modelling assessment report and 
supplementary Technical Note and carried out check modelling and sensitivity 
analysis.  We reviewed the selection of modelling inputs, modelling methodology 
and assumptions, selection and distribution of receptors, the outputs of the 
modelling exercise, statistical interpretation of modelling outputs and conclusions 
of the assessment.  
The operator’s assessment concludes that no significant effects are likely at 
human health and ecological receptors.  We note that the operator did not assess 
nitrogen monoxide (NO) against the relevant Environmental Assessment Levels 
(EALs).  
We agree with the conclusions of the applicant’s assessment of impacts at 
human receptors, which are based on the process contributions (PCs) and 
predicted environmental concentrations (PECs) given in section 8 of the air 
quality report, and can be summarised as follows. 
For both testing scenarios: 
• the probability of exceeding the EA for hourly mean NO
2 is less than 
1%, i.e., highly unlikely.  
• For the long-term, annual NO2 PCs are insignificant, i.e. less than 1% 
of the ES at all human health receptors. 
• there are no predicted exceedances of any of the US EPA Acute 
Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGLs)1. 
 
For the emergency scenario: 
• exceedance of the short-term NO2 ES is highly unlikely at any 
sensitive receptors.  
• there are no exceedances of the AEGL-1 at hourly or sub-hourly 
timescales at any receptors.  
 
1 Acute Exposure Guideline levels for Selected Airborne Chemicals, Committee of Toxicology Volume 11, 
2012 