 
                       Page 10 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
The site is fully concreted, including fuel delivery areas and the two engine 
compounds.  The surface water drainage system in these areas is separate from 
the data centre building and car park surface water drainage systems.   
Surface water run-off from the each of the engine compounds discharges via 
dedicated bypass interceptors, which are equipped with oil level sensors and 
alarms, before discharging to two soakaways (emission points W1 and W2).  
During storm conditions, the storm excess overflows into the Thames Water 
surface water sewer system (emissions points W3 and W4).  The ultimate 
discharge point of the surface water sewer is the Chalvey Ditches. 
Fuel storage areas are inspected daily, including the surfaces and pathways to 
the drains.   Delivery procedures are included in the operator’s EMS.  All 
deliveries are planned in advance, supervised and all at-risk drains are covered. 
The fuel delivery connection points are located within a locked delivery housing 
with a drip tray also within the container structure.  Tanks are not filled more than 
95% of capacity.  
The operator’s EMS also includes procedures for managing accidents, incidents 
and complaints and details the actions required in the event of small incidents 
such as minor spills and leaks, as well as major incidents such as fire and larger 
spills.  
Fuel (ultra-low sulphur gas oil) is stored in steel belly tanks, one situated under 
each engine/generator set container.  Gas oil is automatically supplied to the 
generators from the tanks, which are integrally bunded with the void capacity 
being 110% of the capacity of the tank, in line with CIRIA guidance and with a 
leak detection alarm fitted between the inner and outer skins.  The tanks are 
equipped with overfill prevention valves.   
We have included improvement condition IC4 that requires the operator to install 
shut-off valves with oil detection prior to the discharge point into each soakaway.   
Drainage drawings were provided with the application.  Details of the existing 
condition of the site can be found in the Site Condition Report supplied with the 
application, which we have reviewed and consider satisfactory. 
 
 
Decision considerations 
Confidential information 
A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 