 
                       Page 8 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
maximum testing hours described in the testing schedule outlined in the 
application documents and included by reference in the Operating Techniques 
Table S1.2 of the permit. 
 
The permit does not allow voluntary / elective power generation such as for 
demand side response (i.e. on-site use), grid short-term operating reserve 
(STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) or Frequency Control by Demand 
Management (FCDM) for grid support or elective onsite use of electric power, 
when this can be supplied from the grid.  This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market 
and importantly provides a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to 
air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air 
quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, phasing generators into 
subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and 
most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the actual 
reliability of the local electricity grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency 
to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged 
periods in an emergency mode is low. 
Reporting of standby generator maintenance run hours is required annually and 
any electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require 
both annual reporting and immediate notification of the Environment Agency. 
 
It is anticipated that the timescale of operation is likely to be short.  They will only 
operate in this mode when the National Grid is off-line.  The operator has put 
multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure 
including dual substation connection and management systems for preventing 
data centre failure. 
 
The permit includes the requirement to carry out on-going monitoring of the 
emissions from the generators (see Monitoring section of this document).  As the 
applicant has not planned the installation of suitable monitoring ports at the 
present, on the assumption that no monitoring would be required, we have 
included an improvement condition (IC2) requiring the operator to demonstrate 
that appropriate sample locations are included in the design of the generators.   
 
 
Assessment of Best Available Techniques 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that gas oil fired generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators.  However, we require a BAT assessment detailing the 
choice of generator, the particular configuration and plant sizing to meet the 
standby arrangement.  