 
                       Page 4 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
more than 18 hours in a year, corresponding to the 99.79th percentile 
specification for the short-term NO2 ES.  The statistical analysis was based on 
the hypergeometric probability distribution and followed the methodology set out 
in our web guidance on dispersion modelling assessment for generators. 
The applicant scoped out the impacts of particulate matter, explaining that this is 
due in part to low emissions (stating that emissions of particulate matter from the 
diesel generators are typically two orders of magnitude lower than NOx 
emissions at equivalent load) and in part to the low operating and emergency 
hours in the year.  We accept the operator’s approach.  Based on particulate 
emissions data provided in the technical data sheets submitted with the 
application, we agree that the total operational hours and emergency running 
period will not be long enough to cause exceedances of the relevant ES.   
Impacts from sulphur dioxide (SO
2) have also not been assessed; the plant will 
run on ultra-low sulphur gas oil.  We have included a condition in the permit 
restricting the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil.  
The ADMS Version 5.2.4 software dispersion model was used to predict 
atmospheric concentrations of the identified pollutants; we accept that the use of 
this model is appropriate for these circumstances. 
Three different operating scenarios were modelled. Two scenarios, Virtus Test 1 
and Virtus Test 2, represent routine testing operations. A further scenario, Virtus 
Emergency 2, represents emergency situations where there is a loss of electrical 
power.  The operating scenarios are summarised below: 
• Virtus Test 1 – representative of a ‘switch on’ test.  Each generator will be 
tested at 10% load for 15 minutes per month for 11 months of the year 
(modelled at 10% load as there is no emissions data for zero load).  This 
corresponds to a worst-case of 3 hours in one day and a total of 33 hours 
per year.  The operator anticipates that in reality each test will be limited to 
approximately 5 minutes only. 
• V irtus Test 2  – representative of a full service on-load test consisting of an 
initial 20 minutes at 100% load immediately followed by 120 minutes at 
75% load; to be carried out once per year in the 12th month of the year.  
Each generator will be tested one at a time for 2.3 hours, totalling 27.6 
hours per year.  
• V
irt us Emergency 2 – this represents a theoretical complete mains 
electricity failure of 72 hours duration per year. In this scenario there is an 
initial period of 20-30 minutes where generators are required to run at 
100% load, to recharge the UPS battery array before dropping to the 
actual building required, designed to be 88%.  Based on Ofgem grid 
operator outage data and on-site outage worst case estimates, the 
consultant states the operator’s calculated average annual operation 
emergency scenario assumed a power outage occurs once in every five or 
six years for 24 hours. Therefore, a 72 hour outage is considered highly 
conservative.  In this scenario all 12 generators operate simultaneously 