 
                       Page 2 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Overview of the Installation  
The site is part of a new electronic data storage centre which includes back-up 
electricity generation capacity, a Schedule 1 S1.1 Part A(1)(a) activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance 
with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW)).  The site is located in 
an area of light industrial and commercial developments on the Slough Trading 
Estate in Slough.  The nearest residential receptors are over 250 metres to the 
south west of the site.   
The combustion plant only operates for limited routine testing and maintenance 
or in an emergency scenario if the National Grid power supply fails. The 
combustion activity comprises twelve 6 MWth gas oil fuelled standby generators. 
The aggregated total combustion capacity on site will be 72 MWth. 
Each generator has an exhaust, which is 15 metres above ground level. 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid.  In the 
event of a failure of this electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to 
maintain power to the data centre.  The generators will be used solely for the 
purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation.  
The generators are subject to a routine maintenance testing schedule -  each 
generator is tested one at time to minimise air quality impact, at 0% load for 15 
minutes per month, for eleven months of the year.  Every year the generators are 
also subject to an additional test, undertaken during the twelfth month of the year.  
The annual test consists of running the generators sequentially at 100% load for 
20 minutes, then reducing to 75% load for 120 minutes.  The testing scenarios 
total 5.1 hours of operation per generator per year and 60.6 hours of operation in 
total per year. 
 
Furthermore, the operator has provided a management procedure that applies to 
this and other Virtus data centres in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and Virtus 
Slough Campus Data Centres) and ensures that during testing and maintenance, 
only one generator is to be worked on at any one time if the generator is required 
to run.  The procedure is included in Table S1.2 (Operating Techniques) of the 
permit. 
 
Each of the generators runs on ultra-low sulphur gas oil fuel, although alternative 
fuels that can be demonstrated to have an equivalent or lower environmental 
impact may be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency as they become 
available.  Each generator has a dedicated, above ground 29,475 litre fuel tank - 
sufficient fuel for 48 hours run time at emergency (near full) load.   
 