 
                       Page 3 of 17 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
The fuel tanks installed are integrally bunded steel tanks fitted with a level probe 
and gauge, overfill prevention valve, high-and low-level alarms and bund alarms 
to alert of leaks between the two skins of the storage tanks.   
The tanks are inspected externally on a daily basis for signs of corrosion and are 
subject to 5 yearly empty tank inspections. 
A fuel polishing unit, comprising a filter to remove particulates and water, is fixed 
to each tank and is operated to minimise wastage by maintaining the quality of 
the fuel during long periods of storage and non-use.   
The tanks are protected by vehicle movement impact by barriers or concrete 
bollards, and are positioned on raised concrete plinths.  The site is engineered to 
slope to the drainage system and bypass interceptor. 
The operator’s EMS includes procedures for supervised fuel delivery (which 
includes covering of at-risk drains and provision of spill kits) and management of 
spills and leaks.  A spill response exercise is undertaken routinely to test the 
procedure. 
 
Air Quality  
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-
emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-environmental-permit) an d the relevant parts 
of the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/specified-g enerators-
dispersion-modelling-assessment )  the applicant submitted detailed air dispersion 
modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on human 
receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-
environmental-permit. 
The applicant’s assessment of the impact of emissions to air is detailed in 
application document titled ‘Virtus Data Centres London 11 Air Quality 
Assessment’, ref: 70091311 AQ01 version 1.0 dated 28/10/2022, supplemented 
by the applicant’s response to our request for information dated 14/10/2022, 
which was received by the Environment Agency on 04/11/2022 and which 
includes a ‘Technical Note’ ref: 70092911, dated 04/11/2022. 
The primary pollutants of concern that have been assessed by the applicant are 
nitrogen dioxide (NO
2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) using emissions data from 
manufacturer’s data sheets.  The applicant used a statistical analysis 
methodology to determine the likelihood of the worst predicted emissions from 
the operations of the standby emergency plant coinciding with the worst 
meteorological hours over the modelled operating envelope, and subsequently 
causing a breach of the short-term Environmental Standard (ES) for NO
2 for 