 
Permit number                              
EPR/DP3348QS 2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
LON11 Data Centre  
Permit number EPR/DP3348QS 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
LON11 Data Centre is a new electronic data storage centre which includes back-up electricity generation 
capacity - a Schedule 1, Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations 
(the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW)).   
 
The site is located in an area of light industrial and commercial developments on the Slough Trading Estate 
in Slough.  The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 95408 80893.  The nearest residential receptors 
are over 250 m to the south west of the site.  The following designated conservation sites are within relevant 
screening distances of the installation: Burnham Beeches Special Area of Conservation (SAC), Chilterns 
Beechwoods SAC, Windsor Forest and Great Park SAC, South West London Waterbodies Special 
Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar, as well as a number of undesignated local sites.  
 
At the site there are 12 standby generators with an aggregated capacity of 72 MWth.  The generators are 
grouped in two banks, one to the north west (emission points EP1 to EP6) and another to the south east 
(emission points EP7 to EP12).  The generators run on ultra-low sulphur gas oil and discharge emissions to 
air via individual 15 metre stacks.  The main emissions to air are oxides of nitrogen.   
 
Under normal operation, electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid and the 
combustion plant operates only for limited routine maintenance.  The generators are tested one at a time to 
minimise air quality impact, at 0% load for 15 minutes per month, for eleven months of the year.  Every year 
the generators are also subject to an additional test, undertaken during the twelfth month of the year. The 
annual test consists of running the engines sequentially at 100% load for 20 minutes, then reducing to 75% 
load for 120 minutes.  The testing scenarios total 5.1 hours of operation per generator per year and 60.6 
hours of operation in total per year.  The operator has provided a management procedure that applies to this 
and other Virtus data centres in the locality (LON9 Data Centre and Virtus Slough Campus Data Centres) 
and ensures that during testing and maintenance, only one generator will be operated at a time. 
 
In the event of a failure of the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain power to 
the data centre.  The generators will be used solely for the purpose of providing a back -up power supply, 
with no electricity being exported from the installation.   
 
Each generator has a dedicated fuel tank with a capacity of 29,475 litres per tank.  The tanks are double-
skinned steel tanks designed to provide 110% containment, fitted with leak detection, level gauges, overfill 
prevention valves and high and low-level alarms.  
 
The site is covered in hardstanding, with uncontaminated surface water from the two generator compounds 
discharging to two soakaways via dedicated interceptors.  
 
This site is operated independently but under the operator’s common ISO 14001 accredited Environmental 
Management System and management structure, which applies to other Virtus data centres in the area.     
 