 
Permit number                              
EPR/DP3348QS 12 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors 
• Specific timescales for response measures 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power 
• Selection of appropriate times for full-scale testing of the 
generators 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
IC2 Monitoring of emissions 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of 
the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in Table S3.1, in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified 
generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
The plan shall include, but not limited to: 
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a 
proposal to install them within the shortest practical timeline 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints 
affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed 
deviation from the testing regime specified in table S3.1.  
31/10/2023  
unless otherwise 
agreed by the 
Environment 
Agency 
IC3 BAT compliance 
For the generators emitting from the following emission points: 
EP1, EP2, EP3, EP4, EP5, EP6, EP7, EP8, EP9, EP10, 2P11, EP12 
The operator shall provide evidence for approval by the Environment 
Agency that the generators to comply with BAT emissions standards (i.e. 
TA Luft 2g or US EPA Tier II or an equivalent standard). 
31/01/2024 
unless otherwise 
agreed by the 
Environment 
Agency 
IC4 Drainage 
The operator shall submit a written report for approval by the 
Environment Agency setting out proposed measures to minimise 
pollution risk as a result of leaks and spillages from the installation.   
The report shall have regard to guidance CIRIA C736: Containment 
systems for the prevention of pollution, and shall include, but not be 
limited to: 
• consideration of the installation of physical devices, e.g. shut-off 
valves with oil detection, prior to the discharge point into each 
soakaway (emission points W1 and W2).   
• an updated drainage plan showing the location of any installed 
physical devices. 
On approval, the operator shall implement the measures agreed to a 
timetable agreed in writing with the Environment Agency.   
31/01/2024 
unless otherwise 
agreed by the 
Environment 
Agency 
  