EPR/ EP3335JZ/A001 
Date issued: 28/09/2023 
 4 
Also, the additional measures specified under IC3 are expected to achieve a reduction of impacts during the 
emergency operations. 
There are high uncertainties particularly due to  some receptors being located in the wake and cavity of 
buildings. Thus  we have a specified improvement condition IC2 requiring the operator to determine the actual 
short term NOx concentrations at the site boundary through monitoring to contribute to the validation of 
conclusions reached in the air quality assessment within the application and to inform the air quality 
management plan.  
Permit conditions 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity; and thereby emission limit values (ELVs) 
to air (and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit. Emergency hours operation 
includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure 
associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
The limit on the emergency  use of 500 hours is for the installation as a whole, meaning that as soon as one 
generator starts operating the hours count towards the 500 hours. 
The planned testing operations of the generators shall be limited to the maximum testing hours described in 
the testing schedule outlined in the application documents and included by reference in the Operating 
Techniques Table S1.2 of the permit. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid fa ilures regardless of duration) req uires both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
2.3 Noise 
The primary noise sources on site are the generators, chillers, fans and transformers. The generators are 
located within a building that reduces sound emissions and are provided with silencers on their exhausts.  
We are not aware of any previous noise complaints relating to the site and the Applicant declared that there 
has not been any history of noise complaints due to the activities carried out at the site. 
Although no noise management plan has been requested to date, condition 3.4 enables the Environment 
Agency to request one if considered necessary in the future.  
2.4 Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the particular 
configuration and plant sizing meeting the standby arrangement. 
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA -Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m 3 at 
reference conditions and 5% O2. The generator specifications on the site have emissions  that are in line with 
these specifications.  
 
2.5 Protection of Groundwater and Soil 
The urea tanks used to supply the source of ammonia to the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) system will 
be stored in 7 2,500 litre tanks. These are to be integrally bunded to 110% and located within the generator 
rooms, with one tank serving two generators. In addition, these tanks will also have overflow alarms and leak 
detection devices.  
 
The emergency back-up generators will be supplied with fuel which will be stored in 14 26,000 litre belly tanks, 
located beneath each generator.  
The belly tanks will store enough fuel to provide 24 hours’ worth of electricity when running at 100% continuous 
load. Each tank is double skinned and integrally bunded to 110% of the capacity of the tank. Leak detection 
and overfill alarms are present on each tank. 
 