EPR/ EP3335JZ/A001 
Date issued: 28/09/2023 
 2 
During normal operations of the site, the generators are run for maintenance and testing only, accor ding to 
the testing schedule as follows. 
 
The generators are solely used as standby plant for emergency power provision in the event of grid failure. 
At the theoretical design load, only 12 of the14 generators would need to operate to carry the sites elect rical 
load with 2 acting as redundancy.  
 
There is no capacity agreement in place or plans to operate the generators for generating revenue. As such, 
operation of the generators is likely to be limited to monthly maintenance and testing of no more than 50 
hours / year / generator.  
 
The planned operation of the generators is as follows and will be confirmed once the site is operational:  
 
1. Testing and maintenance  
 
Each generator unit is tested separately at 25% load for half an hour every two weeks per a nnum. There is 
also a 1 hour test each quarter. This totals 14 hours per generator.  
 
In addition to fortnightly and quarterly tests, each generator unit will be tested separately at 100% load for 
1.5 hours, twice per annum. This equates to 3 hours per generator.  
 
2. Grid outage  
In the unlikely event of a loss of grid power to the building, all 14 generators will start and then drop off 
according to requirement. The arrangement at this installation ensures that 12 generators can provide the full 
electrical requirement to the site, with 2 generators as back up in the event a generator fails to start.   
2.2 Air Quality 
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
and sulphur dioxide (SO 2) resulting from the combustion process on site. The Applicants’ air quality risk 
assessment is set out in the application document titled ‘Air Quality Assessment’, version V4, dated July 2022 
and ‘Air Quality Assessment Addendum for Ecological Impacts’, version V1, dated March 2023. These included 
an air dispersion modelling study which assessed the potential impact on local air quality of emissions of NOx, 
particulates and SO 2 from the generators. Both the maintenance  testing and emergency scenarios were 
assessed within the modelling exercise. 
Refer to our web guidance Air emissions risk assessment for your environment al permit for the assessment 
criteria and methodology, air quality standards, and definitions of technical parameters.  
The data centre is situated within the Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) declared by the London Borough 
of Hillingdon for NO2. 
The air dispersion  model carried out by the applicant used the ADMS software  which we consider an 
appropriate air quality modelling tool for regulatory purposes. The model used 5 years meteorological data  
(2015-2019) from the London Heathrow airport meteorological station a nd included the potential effects of 
buildings but not terrain in the modelling domain on the dispersion of the emitted pollutants. The ADMS-5 user 
guidance suggests terrain effects should only be modelled where the gradient exceeds 1:10. To local area to 
this site is flat and as such, the impact of complex terrain has not been modelled. We agree with this approach.  
The assessment carried out by the Applicant also included a sensitivity analysis of the modelling set up and a 
statistical interpretation of short-term exceedances of air quality standards.  
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) has audited the air dispersion modelling and report 
submitted with the permit application , including the selection of inputs, modelling methodology and 
assumptions, outputs of the modelling exercise, statistical interpretation of modelling outputs and conclusions 
of the assessment.  
Considering the uncertainty of the modelling predictions and statistical analysis we have imposed an 
improvement condition (IC2) requiring the Applicant to validate the results of their assessment with air quality 
monitoring at the boundaries of the site. 
 
 
 