EPR/ EP3335JZ/A001 
Date issued: 28/09/2023 
 1 
 
Permitting decisions  
Bespoke permit 
We have decided to grant the permit for Hayes Data Centre Emergency Back-up Generation Facility 
operated by Amazon Data Services UK Limited. 
The permit number is EPR/DP3442QV. 
We consider in reaching that decision we have taken into account all relevant considerations and legal 
requirements and that the permit will ensure that the appropriate level of environmental protection is 
provided. 
1 Purpose of this document 
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It summarises the decision 
making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors have been taken in to account.  
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It: 
• highlights key issues in the determination 
• summarises the decision making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors 
have been taken into account 
• shows how we have considered the consultation responses. 
Unless the decision document specifies otherwise we have accepted the applicant’s proposals.  
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit. The introductory note 
summarises what the permit covers. 
2 Key issues of the decision 
2.1 Description of the installation 
The Hayes Data Centre Emergency Back-up Generation Facility (labelled ‘EC1’ on the site plan) is required 
to provide emergency back-up power to the Data Centre and its associated infrastructure. This is one of 
three Data Centres being developed on campus and, at the time of writing, the other two Data Centres are 
due to be under the control of a separate operator and are likely to be covered under a separate permit. 
 
The construction of Hayes Data Centre will see 14 new 8.01 MW(th) Rolls Royce MTU DS4000 emergency 
back-up diesel generators installed over several floors in Energy Centre 1 (“EC1”). The total (aggregated) 
capacity is approximately 112 MW(th) and so is captured as a Schedule 1, Part A(1)(a) under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations burning fuel of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 
megawatts (MW) or more comprised of New Medium Combustion Plant (MCP).  
 
The site is in an urban location, which is relatively industrial in the immediate vicinity, with residential 
properties 400m to the North and South. The Parkway dual carriageway is located directly East which joins 
the M4 motorway further South. To the North, the site backs onto a railway line. The Grand Union Canal 
borders the campus to the South, while the River Crane borders the East boundary of the site.  
