EPR/ EP3335JZ/A001 
Date issued: 28/09/2023 
 7 
Aspect considered Decision 
exceedance of the NOX annual critical level, NH3 annual critical level or the 
nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition critical loads. We cannot rule out an 
exceedance of the daily mean NOX critical levels of 75 µg/m3 and 200 
µg/m3 at the nearby LWSs as a result of 72 hours of emergency operation. 
However, we consider the likelihood of exceedances occurring as a result of 
a major grid failure to be low on the basis that historical data indicates that 
power outages have been rare. 
 
We sent a Habitat Risk Assessment (HRA) to Natural England for 
information only. The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance.  
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk 
from the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory, however we have included 
improvement conditions to ensure additional considerations of risk relating 
to emissions to air are considered on an ongoing basis. 
 
See key issues section above. 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared 
these with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Permit conditions 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
set an improvement programme. 
We have set an improvement programme as outlined in the key issues 
section above. 
Emission limits We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Reporting We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is 
being operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to 
ensure that we are notified immediately in the instance that the site ever 
operated in emergency scenario mode. 
Operator competence 
Management system There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Relevant convictions 
 
The Case Management System and National Enforcement Database have 
been checked to ensure that all relevant convictions have been declared.  
No relevant convictions were found. The operator satisfies the criteria in our 
guidance on operator competence. 
Financial competence There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be 
financially able to comply with the permit conditions.  
Growth Duty 
Section 108 Deregulation 
Act 2015 – Growth duty  
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and 
the guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to 
grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of 
regulators, these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to 
development or growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a 
factor that all specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the 
delivery of the protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental 
standards to be set for this operation in the body of the decision document 
above. The guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not 