EPR/ EP3335JZ/A001 
Date issued: 28/09/2023 
 3 
 
Testing scenarios 
The applicant modelled the testing operation of the generators according to the following:  
 
• Testing Scenario 1: ‘Fortnightly and Quarterly Test’ scenario accounting for 14 hours of operation 
per year, per generator, at 25% load. Tested individually. 
• Testing Scenario 2: ‘Bi-Annual Test’ scenario accounting for 3 hours of operation per year, per 
generator, at 100% load. Tested individually. 
• Emergency Scenario: 72-hour grid failure event, with all generators r unning concurrently at 100% 
load. 
 
The Applicant’s assessment is summarised in the following: 
• The process contributions (PC) / predicted environmental concentrations (PEC) of CO, particulates, 
benzene and SO2 are non-significant at all receptors. 
• The hourly mean percentile PC of NO 2 is anticipated to exceed both short -term screening criteria at 
four discrete receptors in the vicinity of the site, during a 72-hour grid failure event. However, the PEC 
is anticipated to be less than the relevant AQS at all receptors, even at the 99.79th percentile. As such, 
significant short-term impacts on NO2 as a result of an emergency grid failure are not anticipated. 
• The long-term PC/PEC of NO2 are non-significant at all the human and ecological receptors. 
• Both long term and short-term increases in pollution concentrations as a result of the operation of the 
proposed SBGs are not expected to have a significant impact on local air quality, in any normal grid 
failure or testing scenarios. 
Although we don’t agree with all the elements  and predictions of the Applicants’ assessment, we agree with 
their conclusions regarding human health . Taking into account the results of our audit, we are satisfied that 
the testing regime will not be likely to r esult in breaches of the statutory AQS and significant impacts on the 
human receptors in the area.  
Whilst we cannot rule out exceedances of the daily NOX critical level at a number of nearby Local Wildlife 
Sites (LWS), we consider exceedances to be unlikely provided the grid reliability at the facility remains high.  
 
Emergency scenario 
An assumed 3 day worst case scenario and 14 generators running concurrently at 100% load for full loss of 
power has been modelled which we consider a conservative scenario, given the information provided by the 
Applicant on the reliability of the connection of the installation to the electric grid.  
For this scenario we found that there is the potential for exceedance of:  
• The daily (short term) NO2 environmental standards at sensitive human health receptor locations. 
However the PEC for ST NO2 is not predicted to exceed the environmental standard. 
• There is unlikely to be any exceedance of the rest of the environmental standards at sensitive 
human receptor locations outside the site boundary. 
• Under the testing and emergency scenarios, the PCs are predicted to be insignificant when 
compared to the relevant critical levels and critical loads for the European habitat sites. The PCs are 
predicted to be less than 100% for the local nature sites. The applicant has applied the daily NOX 
critical level of 75 µg/m3. . 
Our audit of the Applicant’s assessment has lead us to the conclusion that the risk of exceeding the short-
term statutory AQS for NO2 during the emergency operations of the installation is low. The emergency 
scenario is unlikely to make a significant contribution to or cause an exceedance of the NOX annual critical 
level, NH3 annual critical level or the nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition critical loads. We cannot rule out 
an exceedance of the daily mean NOX critical levels of 75 µg/m3 and 200 µg/m3 at the nearby LWSs as a 
result of 72 hours of emergency operation. However, we consider the likelihood of exceedances occurring as 
a result of a major grid failure to be low on the basis that historical data indicates that power outages have 
been rare.  
We have specified that the operator shall have a written action Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) to 
manage the risks for prolonged emergency running of the plant  and limit the duration of an outage event to 
less than 50 hours, as far as possible. This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The 
operator is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop this plan to ensure local factors are fully 
considered. This AQMP is included in the permit through improvement condition IC1 . 