EPR/ EP3335JZ/A001 
Date issued: 28/09/2023 
 6 
3 Decision checklist  
Aspect considered Decision 
Receipt of application 
Confidential information A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 
Identifying confidential 
information  
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that 
we consider to be confidential.  
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 
Consultation 
Consultation The consultation requirements were identified in accordance with the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations and our public participation 
statement. 
The application was publicised on the GOV.UK website. 
We consulted the following organisations: 
• Environmental Health and Planning – London Borough of Hillingdon 
• Food Standards Agency 
• Health and Safety Executive 
• Director of Public Health England and UKHSA (formerly PHE) 
The comments and our responses are summarised in the consultation 
section. 
Operator 
Control of the facility We are satisfied that the applicant (now the operator) is the person who will 
have control over the operation of the facility after the grant of the permit. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on legal operator 
for environmental permits. 
The facility 
The regulated facility We considered the extent and nature of the facility at the site in accordance 
with RGN2 ‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of 
RGN 2 ‘Defining the scope of the installation’, Appendix 1 of RGN 2 
‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’, guidance on waste recovery plans and 
permits. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The 
activities are defined in table S1.1 of the permit. 
The site 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, 
showing the extent of the site of the facility. The plan is included in the 
permit. 
Site condition report 
 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which 
we consider is satisfactory. Based on the site condition report, we consider 
that appropriate pollution prevention measures are in place and that the 
pollution of land and water is unlikely. The decision was taken in 
accordance with our guidance on site condition reports. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
The following statutorily protected site are within relevant screening 
distance from the installation: 
 
• Richmond Park  SAC (UK0030246). 
• South West London Waterbodies  SPA (UK9012171). 
• South West London Waterbodies  Ramsar (UK11065). 
We consider that the application will not affect the statutorily protected 
conservation sites or their habitats.  
A number of local ecological sites are within relevant screening distance. 
Having taken into considerations the predictions of the air dispersion model 
submitted by the Applicant we have concluded that the testing scenarios 
are unlikely to make a significant contribution or cause an exceedance of 
any critical loads and levels at ecological receptors. • The emergency 
scenario is unlikely to make a significant contribution to or cause an 