Permit number 
EPR/DP3442QV 2 
Permit number EPR/DP3442QV 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
This permit will allow the operator to operate:  
• One or more medium combustion plant (MCP) between 1 and <50MWth but aggregated to >50MWth 
The details of the units and associated limits and monitoring requirements are specified in Table s S1.1 and 
S3.1.  
The Hayes Data Centre Emergency Back-up Generation Facility (labelled ‘EC1’ on the site plan) is required 
to provide emergency back-up power to the Data Centre and its associated infrastructure. This is one of 
three Data Centres being developed on campus and, at the time of writing, the other tw o Data Centres are 
due to be under the control of a separate operator and are likely to be covered under a separate permit.  
The construction of Hayes Data Centre will see 14 new 8.01 MW(th) Rolls Royce MTU DS4000 emergency 
back-up diesel generators installed over several floors in Energy Centre 1 (“EC1”). The total (aggregated) 
capacity is approximately 112 MW(th) and so is captured as a Schedule 1, Part A(1)(a) under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations burning fuel of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 
megawatts (MW) or more comprised of New Medium Combustion Plant (MCP). 
The site is in an urban location, which is relatively industrial in the immediate vicinity, with residential 
properties 400m to the North and South. The Parkway dual carriageway is located directly East which joins 
the M4 motorway further South. To the North, the site backs onto a railway line. The Grand Union Canal 
borders the campus to the South, while the River Crane borders the East boundary of the site.  
During normal operations of the site, the generators are run for maintenance and testing only, according to 
the testing schedule as follows. 
The generators are solely used as standby plant for emergency power provision in the event of grid failure. 
At the theoretical design load, only 12 of the14 generators would need to operate to carry the sites electrical 
load with 2 acting as redundancy.  
There is no capacity agreement in place or plans to operate the generators for generating revenue. As such, 
operation of the generators is likely to be limited to monthly maintenance and testing of no more than 50 
hours / year / generator.  
 
The planned operation of the generators is as follows and will be confirmed once the site is operational:  
1. Testing and maintenance  
Each generator unit is tested separately at 25% load for half an hour every two weeks per annum. There is 
also a 1 hour test each quarter. This totals 14 hours per generator.  
In addition to fortnightly and quarterly tests, each generator unit will be test ed separately at 100% load for 
1.5 hours, twice per annum. This equates to 3 hours per generator.  
2. Grid outage  
In the unlikely event of a loss of grid power to the building, all 14 generators will start and then drop off 
according to requirement. The arrangement at this installation ensures that 12 generators can provide the full 
electrical requirement to the site, with 2 generators as back up in the event a generator fails to start.   
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit 
reference number. 