 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 12 of 14 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission 
points A10 and A11 (new medium combustion plant), with a minimum frequency 
of once every 1500 hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes 
first). This monitoring has been included in the permit in order to comply with the 
requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive, which specifies the 
minimum requirements form monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, 
regardless of the reduced operating hours of the plant.  
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides from emission 
points A10 and A11 (new medium combustion plant), with the same frequency 
specified for the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this 
requirement, we have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this 
limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide 
monitoring, is proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from 
the installation.   
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5).  
We have set an improvement condition (IC2) requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in the permit.  
 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit. 
We have added reporting requirements for emissions to air of every 3 years, as 
opposed to 5 years – as stated for backup generators. We deemed this 
necessary for monitoring the site performance. 
We made these decisions in accordance with Environmental Protection 
Regulation. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable them to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
We only review a summary of the management system during determination. The 
Applicant submitted their full management system. We have therefore only 
reviewed the summary points.  