 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 8 of 14 
We do acknowledge that it would not be practicable to require the Applicant at 
this stage to upgrade all plant to BAT standards. Retrofit abatement techniques 
for existing installations for engine emissions such as SCR would not normally be 
expected for standby plant to mitigate the emissions for standby/emergency 
operation, but it may be justified when the results of the environmental risk 
assessment warrants so. The operator has agreed to equip the generators 
located outside with SCR. These are identified as B6/7 01, B6/7 02, B8/9 01 and 
B8/9 02.  
The operator has also agreed to change the configuration of the stacks for 9 of 
the generators. The revised stack setups were selected in line with Environment 
Agency best practice, as prescribed in the Data Centre FAQs (v21) guidance. 
The stacks for generators B8/9 03, B8/9 06, EC 01, EC 02 and EC 03 are to be 
changed from horizontal to vertical and extend to roof height plus 3m (40.5m 
above ground level). The stacks orientation for generators B6/7 01, B6/7 02, B8/9 
01 and B8/9 02 is already vertical but will be extended by 4 meters (8.9m above 
ground level for B6/7 and 8.1m above ground level for B8/9). 
We have included IC3 requesting the Operator to provide evidence that the SCR, 
DPF and stack configuration changes have been implemented. 
The data centre’s internal power supply comprises fourteen power supplies which 
are fed from two separate substations. Of those fourteen supplies, only twelve 
are used at any one time. The two spare supplies are maintained for use in case 
of a sudden loss of power to the Site. In such a situation, the Site can switch to 
use one of the two spare supplies meaning that supply from the National Grid 
can be maintained rather than relying on the on-site generators to produce 
electricity. When incoming mains power supply is disrupted, the UPS (battery 
arrays) on site is designed to last at least 6 minutes. The UPS increases the 
Site’s resilience to power outages without the on-site generators needing to 
operate. 
Decision considerations 
Confidential information 
A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 
Identifying confidential information 
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that we 
consider to be confidential.   
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 