 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 3 of 14 
The underground fuel storage tank (UST) was installed in 1999 and is enclosed 
in concrete casing. The access to this fuel tank is through a hatch one metre 
below ground level. An integrity test of the UST was undertaken on the 26th April 
2021. The tank passed the non-destructive testing and was considered to be in 
good condition with minimal risk of leakage. The UST is equipped with low and 
low-low levels alarm as well as a water detection system for water ingress. Site 
operatives monitor the fuel level in the underground fuel tank monthly with an 
electronic levelling gauge.  
Point source emissions 
No point source emissions to water and groundwater are foreseen. 
There is one point source emission to sewer that discharges storm water only. 
The storm water is discharged via an oil interceptor, which limits the potential for 
hydrocarbon to enter the sewerage system in the event of loss of containment 
from the generator fuel systems and storage. 
Air quality 
The Applicant’s air quality risk assessment is set out in the application document 
titled ‘Air Quality Impact Assessment’ dated 23 March 2023. This included an air 
dispersion modelling study which assessed the potential impact on local air 
quality of emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NOx), particulates and ammonia (NH3) 
from the generators. 
Anticipated emissions are assessed for: 
• Human health: by comparison with short-term and long-term nitrogen dioxide 
(NO2) standards and Acute exposure guideline levels (AEGLs), screening of 
particulate matter with a diameter of 10 microns or less (PM10), 
• Protected conservation areas: by comparison with applicable standards for 
short-term and long-term NOx, long-term NH3, nitrogen deposition and acid 
deposition. 
Emissions of PM10 were assessed using a conservative screening scenario. 
Impacts of PM10 emissions are not expected to be significant. 
Sulphur dioxide emissions were not assessed as the site uses ultra-low-sulphur 
diesel and impacts are therefore anticipated to be insignificant. 
Refer to our web guidance Air emissions risk assessment for your environmental 
permit for the assessment criteria and methodology, air quality standards (AQS), 
and definitions of technical parameters. 
The site is located within the London Borough of Tower Hamlets (LBTH), and 
within a borough-wide Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) for NO2 and 
particulates. 
The air dispersion model carried out by the Applicant used the Lakes AERMOD 
View 11.2.0, which we consider an appropriate air quality modelling tool for 
regulatory purposes. The model used 5 years of meteorological data (2015-2019) 
from the London City airport meteorological station and included the potential 