 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 13 of 14 
A full review of the management system is undertaken during compliance 
checks. 
Previous performance 
We have assessed operator competence. There is no known reason to consider 
the Applicant will not comply with the permit conditions. 
No relevant convictions were found. The operator satisfies the criteria in our 
guidance on operator competence. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able 
to comply with the permit conditions. 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the 
guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to grant this 
permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 