 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 7 of 14 
generators. Emergency hours operation includes those unplanned hours required 
to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated 
but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the installation as a whole, 
meaning that as soon as one generator starts operating the hours count towards 
the 500 hours. 
The planned testing operations of the generators shall be limited to the maximum 
testing hours described in the testing schedule outlined in the application 
documents and included by reference in the Operating Techniques Table S1.2 of 
the permit.  
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any 
electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) requires both 
immediate notification of the Environment Agency and annual reporting. 
We have included IC2 requiring the Operator to provide a monitoring plan for 
approval detailing their proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring 
requirements specified in Table S3.1 for the two new generators with emission 
points A10 and A11. 
Noise 
The primary noise sources on site are the generators, chillers, fans and 
transformers. Most of the generators are located within buildings which will 
attenuate sound emissions. The generators outside are within designated, 
acoustic-insulated containers. 
We are not aware of any previous noise complaints relating to the site and the 
Applicant declared that there has not been any history of noise complaints due to 
the activities carried out at the site. 
Although no noise management plan has been requested, the Applicant 
submitted one. We have not included this plan in the operating techniques table 
as it did not provide sufficient details. However, permit condition 3.4.2 enables us 
to request an updated version if considered necessary in the future. 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. However, we requested a 
BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the configuration and plant sizing 
meeting the standby arrangement. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air (NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at reference conditions 
and 5% oxygen (O2). The generator specifications on the site have emissions 
higher than this. The Applicant’s assessment attributed this to the generators, 
being existing since the site was acquired by Equinix.  