 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 4 of 14 
effects of buildings and terrain in the modelling domain on the dispersion of the 
emitted pollutants. The assessment carried out by the Applicant also included a 
sensitivity analysis of the modelling set up and a statistical interpretation of short-
term exceedances of AQS.  
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) has audited the air 
dispersion modelling and report submitted with the permit application, including 
the selection of inputs, modelling methodology and assumptions, outputs of the 
modelling exercise, statistical interpretation of modelling outputs and conclusions 
of the assessment.  
Considering the uncertainty of the modelling predictions and statistical analysis 
we have imposed an improvement condition (IC1) requiring the Applicant to 
validate the results of their assessment with air quality monitoring at the 
boundaries of the site. 
Testing Regime – NOx NO and NO2 
The Applicant modelled the testing operation of the generators according to the 
schedules outlined in the section above ‘Description of the installation’ and also 
assessed the potential impacts of emergency power generation. 
The impact assessment considers the modelled potential for the 1-hour NO2 AQS 
of 200 μg/m3 to be exceeded at receptors due to the site engine emissions. In 
this case, the short-term baseline, based on the long-term background, is 72.9 
μg/m3, meaning that the Process Contribution (PC) at a receptor must be greater 
than 127.1 μg/m3 NO2 in order for the modelled Predicted Environmental 
Concentration (PEC) to exceed the 1-hour NO2 AQS. The testing regime has 
been modelled to identify whether testing could potentially result in a PEC > 200 
μg/m3, with the following results: 
• Monthly off-load test results predict a PEC >200 μg/m3 from one of the test 
groups and therefore require further analysis; 
• Quarterly building load test results predict a PEC >200 μg/m3 from all test 
groups, and in some cases PECs above the 10-minute, 30-minute and 1-
hour AEGL-1 threshold and the EAL for nitrogen monoxide (NO), and 
therefore require further analysis; 
• Annual UPS maintenance test results predict a PEC >200 μg/m3 and the 10-
minute AEGL-1 threshold, and therefore require further analysis; 
• Annual load bank test results predict a PEC > 200 μg/m3 from all test groups, 
and in some cases PECs above the 10-minute, 30-minute and 1-hour AEGL-
1 thresholds and the EAL for NO, and therefore require further analysis; and 
• B8/9 06 test results predict a PEC <200 μg/m3 and therefore does not require 
further analysis. 
The modelling results presented above indicate that the site testing regime of the 
generators has the potential to create more than 18 exceedances of the hourly 
NO2 standard in a year. Statistical analysis of the model output performed by the 
Applicant suggests that the chance of the hourly standard being exceeded for 
more than 18 hours in a year is below 1%. In addition, analysis suggests that the 