 
 EPR/DP3906BE                         Page 5 of 14 
chance of the AEGL-1 threshold being exceeded for 1-hour NO2 by any individual 
one hour test in the site testing regime is 0.78% or less. As the model is intended 
to be conservative and yet the predicted probability of breaching the AQS or the 
AEGL-1 threshold for 1-hour NO2 in practice is low, it is considered unlikely such 
a breach will occur in practice. 
The modelled potential impacts of the generator testing regime on human health 
by reference to the short-term NO2 AQS are therefore considered to be not 
significant. 
The testing regime was modelled to potentially result in exceedances of the NOx 
24-hour standard at one nearby sensitive local ecological receptor, however this 
is mostly open water (dock) and not therefore sensitive to NOx in practice. This 
was done in a previous submission of the modelling documents. In the meantime, 
further guidance on the appropriate environmental standard (ES) has been 
issued and maximum predicted 24-hour NOx concentrations now fall below the 
applicable ES. No further significant potential impacts are foreseen in the model 
at any designated ecological site assessed, including those associated with 
anticipated ammonia emissions from SCR. 
Emergency Operation – Nox, NO and NO2 
An emergency power generation scenario with all generators of the site running 
at the same time for an hour at 60% load was also assessed. In this case, an 
exceedance of the hourly AQS for NO2, an exceedance of the 10-minute, 30-
minute and 1-hour AEGL-1 threshold and an exceedance of the Environmental 
Assessment Level (EAL) for 1-hour NO has been modelled. The NO2 AQS is 
considered unlikely to be breached in practice as this would require continuous 
emergency running more than 18 hours also coinciding with unfavourable 
dispersion conditions. 
The 24-hour and annual mean NOx and NH3 environmental standards (ES) are 
not expected to be exceeded at nearby local or designated sensitive ecological 
receptors in a one-hour period of emergency operation. 
PM10 
Potential emissions of PM10 were assessed and the expected PM10 emissions 
are not considered to be significant. Potential impacts of particulate matter with a 
diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5) were not assessed as there is no short-
term standard for PM2.5. 
 
AQMAU audit results 
As result of our checks, we can conclude: 
For the testing scenarios, the PCs are above the insignificance criteria of 10% for 
short-term (ST) NO2, ST PM10, NO2 AEGL-1s & ST NO. We predict that no PECs 
will exceed the environmental standard (ES). 