 
Crawley Data Centre Campus        EPR/EP3022ST               Page 11 of 19 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the generators operating at 
the installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for carbon 
monoxide and NOx, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set an improvement condition (IC3) requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in the permit. 
For the new MCP in Unit 2, we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to 
happen within 4 months of the issue date of the permit or the date when each 
new medium combustion plant is first put into operation, whichever is later 
(permit condition 3.5.5) unless otherwise agreed under Improvement Condition 
IC3.  
For the existing MCP in Unit 1 which have a net rated thermal input between 
1MW-5MW monitoring applies from 01/01/2030, which is the relevant MCPD 
compliance date. We have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen at 
any time, but no later than the relevant compliance date (permit condition 3.5.5) 
unless otherwise agreed under Improvement Condition IC3.  
 
9. Emissions to Sewer 
There will be a point source emission of uncontaminated surface water runoff to 
combined sewer at points S1 and S2 as shown on the site plan in Schedule 7 of 
the permit. 
10. Emissions to Water 
There no point source emission to water. 
11. Emissions to Land 
There will be no point source emissions to land. 
12. Waste 
The site generates several waste streams from its operations. This includes 
hazardous waste (waste oil and lighting tubes) and non-hazardous waste (paper, 
cardboard, and general waste). Hazardous waste is removed by a third-party 
provider and waste from the oil interceptor is removed by another third-party 
provider.  
Based upon the information in the application, we are satisfied that the 
appropriate measures will be in place to prevent or where that is not practicable 
to minimise pollution from waste.  