 
Crawley Data Centre Campus        EPR/EP3022ST               Page 4 of 19 
 
The air dispersion modelling carried out by the applicant used the ADMS 6 
software which we consider an appropriate air quality modelling tool for 
regulatory purposes. The model used 5 years meteorological data (2019-2023) 
from the Gatwick airport meteorological station and included the potential effects 
of buildings in the modelling domain on the dispersion of the emitted pollutants. 
The assessment carried out by the Applicant also included a sensitivity analysis 
of the modelling set up and a statistical interpretation of short-term exceedances 
of air quality standards. The statistical analysis was based on the hypergeometric 
probability distribution and followed the methodology set out in our web guidance 
on dispersion modelling assessment for generators. The 6 operating scenarios 
detailed above were modelled. 
Each generator has its own exhaust stack.  
Generator operating parameters and emission concentrations are based on the 
generator manufacturer’s performance and emission data.  
The way in which the Applicant used dispersion models, its selection of input data, 
use of background data and the assumptions it made have been reviewed by the 
Environment Agency to establish the robustness of the Applicant’s air impact 
assessment. The ou tput from the model has then been used to inform further 
assessment of health impacts and impact on habitats and conservation sites. 
Our review of the Applicant’s assessment leads us to agree with their conclusions. 
The Applicant’s modelling predictions are summarised in the following sections. 
Air Quality Impacts (human health) 
The Applicant’s assessment included an assessment of impacts against both 
short-term and long-term environment standards. The assessment showed that 
there would be no exceedance of long-term environmental standards NO2, PM10, 
PM2.5 and CO. Note that there is no long-term environmental standard (ES) for 
SO2. Also, there is no short-term ES for PM2.5 and therefore has not been 
assessed for short-term impacts. 
Predicted impacts Testing Scenario 1 Unit 1 & Unit 2 – monthly load testing: 
The predicted pollutant concentrations for scenario 1, representing monthly 
standby generator testing, were below the relevant short-term environmental 
standards (ES) for NO2, PM10, CO and SO2 at all receptor locations and are not 
considered to be significant. 
 
Predicted impacts for Testing Scenario 2 Unit 1 & Unit 2 - quarterly testing: 
The predicted pollutant concentrations for scenario 2 were below the relevant 
short-term environmental standards (ES) for NO2, PM10, CO and SO2 at all 
receptor locations and are not considered to be significant. 