 
Crawley Data Centre Campus        EPR/EP3022ST               Page 8 of 19 
 
We have included condition 3.4.2 in the permit which requires the Operator to 
submit a noise and vibration management plan should the activities carried out on 
the installation give rise to pollution outside the site due to noise and vibration. 
5. Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
Technology and Fuel 
 
The generators are using gas oil as fu el and we accept that gas oil  powered 
generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators in 
data centres. We are satisfied that the applicant has provided sufficient justification 
to show that their proposal is BAT. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air (NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at reference conditions 
and 5% O2. The generator specifications on the site have emissions significantly 
higher than this. For the generators in Unit 1 which were first put into operation 
before 2018, and which precedes the introduction of the guidance on minimum 
emission standards for standby generators we acknowledge that it would not be 
practicable to require the operator to upgrade this plant to BAT standards. 
However, the generators in Unit 2 were first put into operation after 2018 and 
therefore we consider it is appropriate for the Operator to reduce emissions from 
these generators to a level that is in line with BAT. For this reason, we have 
included an improvement condition (IC2) in the permit requiring the Operator to 
submit a report detailing proposals to reduce NOx emissions from the generators 
in Unit 2.  
 
Fuel Storage 
 
Unit 1 
Gas oil is stored in 3 above ground bulk storage tanks. Two tanks have a 
capacity of 35,000L and one has a capacity of 3,050L. There are also 8 
generator day tanks and 2 shell and core generator day tanks with capacity of 
1,000 litres within the generator enclosures. The Applicant confirmed that all 
tanks and pipework comply with the Oil Storage Regulations (SI 2001/2954) and 
The Control of Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001). 
Unit 2 
Gas oil fuel is stored in 2 above ground bulk storage tanks with capacity of 
38,000 litres each in the south compound of the facility, and in 3 generator day 
tanks with capacity of 2,000 litres capacity each in the generator enclosures. The 
Applicant confirmed that all tanks and pipework comply with the Oil Storage 