 
Crawley Data Centre Campus        EPR/EP3022ST               Page 12 of 19 
13. Operational hours 
We set operational hour limits for data centres at 500-hours as they are permitted 
for emergency use only. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the 
installation as a whole i.e. as soon as one generator starts operating the hours 
count towards the 500 hours.  
The operational hours on the site will be monitored and reported as follows:  
Emergency operation limited to 500 hours for the installation via permit condition 
2.3.6.  
Maintenance and testing regime limited to <50 hours per generator, linked to 
operating techniques table S1.2 
 
14. Permit Conditions 
 
Permit condition 2.3.6 
The permit includes a maximum 500-hour operational limit for the emergency 
standby generators. The 500 hours includes testing and maintenance. 
 
 
Table S1.1 (Activities) 
Includes some additional operational controls: 
• Testing of the generators shall only take place during daytime periods. 
• Electricity produced at the installation cannot be exported to the National 
Grid. 
The first bullet is to minimise the impact from noise, refer to the Noise and Vibration 
section of this document. 
Table S1.1  (second bullet point)  also places a limit on the activity to exclude 
voluntary ‘elective power generation’ such as Balancing Services, Demand Side 
Response operations including Frequency Control Demand Management (FCDM) 
or Triad Avoidance. This is primarily to differentiate data centres from ‘diesel (gas 
oil) arrays’ that operate commercially within the balancing market, and importantly, 
this is a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency 
plant’. 
 
Table S1.2 (Operating techniques) 
The testing and maintenance scenarios are detailed in this document and 
controlled though permitted operating techniques in table S1.2 of the permit.  
 
Table S1.3 (Improvement programme) 
IC1 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
Whilst we are satisfied that the maintenance and testing regime is appropriate, 
given the local issues regarding air quality, including the designation of the 