 
Permit number 
EPR/EP3022ST 10 
(ii) take the measures necessary to ensure that compliance is restored within the shortest 
possible time; 
(c) of a breach of permit condition which poses an immediate danger to human health or threatens 
to cause an immediate significant adverse effect on the environment, the operator must 
immediately suspend the operation of the activities or the relevant part of it until compliance with 
the permit conditions has been restored. 
4.3.2 Any information provided under condition 4.3.1 shall be confirmed by sending the information listed in 
schedule 5 to this permit within the time period specified in that schedule.  
4.3.3 Where the Environment Agency has requested in writing that it shall be notified when the operator is 
to undertake monitoring and/or spot sampling, the operator shall inform the Environment Agency 
when the relevant monitoring and/or spot sampling is to take place. The operator shall provide this 
information to the Environment Agency at least 14 days before the date the monitoring is to be 
undertaken. 
4.3.4 The Environment Agency shall be notified within 14 days of the occurrence of the following matters, 
except where such disclosure is prohibited by Stock Exchange rules: 
Where the operator is a registered company: 
(a) any change in the operator’s trading name, registered name or registered office address; and  
(b) any steps taken with a view to the operator going into administration, entering into a company 
voluntary arrangement or being wound up. 
Where the operator is a corporate body other than a registered company:  
(c) any change in the operator’s name or address; and 
(d) any steps taken with a view to the dissolution of the operator. 
In any other case:  
(e) the death of any of the named operators (where the operator consists of more than one named 
individual); 
(f) any change in the operator’s name(s) or address(es); and 
(g) any steps taken with a view to the operator, or any one of them, going into bankruptcy, entering 
into a composition or arrangement with creditors, or, in the case of them being in a partnership, 
dissolving the partnership. 
4.3.5 Where the operator proposes to make a change in the nature or functioning, or an extension of the 
activities, which may have consequences for the environment and the change is not otherwise the 
subject of an application for approval under the Regulations or this permit: 
(a) the Environment Agency shall be notified at least 14 days before making the change; and  
(b) the notification shall contain a description of the proposed change in operation.  
4.3.6 The Environment Agency shall be given at least 14 days’ notice before implementation of any part of 
the site closure plan. 
4.3.7 Where the operator has entered into a climate change agreement with the Government, the 
Environment Agency shall be notified within one month of: 
(a) a decision by the Secretary of State not to re-certify the agreement; 
(b) a decision by either the operator or the Secretary of State to terminate the agreement; and  
(c) any subsequent decision by the Secretary of State to re-certify such an agreement. 
4.4 Interpretation 
4.4.1 In this permit the expressions listed in schedule 6 shall have the meaning given in that schedule.  