 
Permit number  
EPR/EP3022ST  2 
Crawley Data Centre Campus  
Permit number EPR/EP3022ST 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice. 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The permit authorises the operation of stand-by electricity generating plant at a data centre located in 
Crawley at national grid reference TQ 28670 51462. The data centre will under normal operating conditions 
be powered by grid supplied electricity. 
 
The installation falls under the following Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) Schedule 1 listed 
activity description: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) - Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts.  
 
The installation comprises 17 stand-by backup generators across 2 units to provide electrical power to the 
data centre in the event of a failure of power supply from the national grid. The standby generators are 
medium combustion plant (MCP) gas oil fuelled generators with an aggregated thermal input of 72.6MWth. 
Unit 1 houses 10 stand-by generators which are Existing MCP. Unit 2 house 7 stand-by generators which 
are New MCP. 
 
The plant is limited to operating less than 500 hours/year, including the testing regime. It is essential that the 
standby system is routinely tested to ensure the engines function correctly in the event of them being 
required to operate in an emergency. 
 
The engines are tested monthly, quarterly, 6 monthly (Unit 2 engines only) and annually.   
 
Unit 1 has eight 3.93MWth generators which are fuelled from four above ground integrally bunded 13,500L gas 
oil bulk tanks, exhaust gases from each generator will be discharged through individual 16m stacks. There are 
also two 1.23MW th generators fuelled from an integrally bunded 3050L tank , exhaust gases from each 
generator will be discharged through individual 14.5m stacks.   
 
Unit 2 has seven 5.49MWth generators each fed by a 2000L day tank, which are themselves fed by two above 
ground integrally bunded 38,000L gas oil bulk tanks . Exhaust gases from each generator will be discharged 
through individual 6.8m stacks.  
 
There are no process effluent discharge s from the installation. Uncontaminated surface water r un-off from 
hard-standing will drain via oil-water interceptors before discharging to a combined sewer.  
 
There are a number of local wildlife sites, local nature reserves and ancient woodland within 2km of the 
installation. The closest residential properties are located approximately 50m from the data centre boundary. 
There is an Environmental Management System (EMS) in place based on the ISO 14001 standard.  
The status log of a permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number.   