 
Crawley Data Centre Campus        EPR/EP3022ST               Page 5 of 19 
 
Predicted impacts Testing Scenario 3 Unit 1 - Annual Load Bank Testing & Unit 2 
– Six monthly testing: 
The predicted pollutant concentrations for scenario 3 were below the relevant 
short-term environmental standards (ES) for NO2, PM10, CO and SO2 at all 
receptor locations and are not considered to be significant 
Predicted impacts for Testing Scenario 4 Unit 1 – Annual Black Building Test & 
Unit 2 – Annual Load Bank Test: 
For Unit 1 the predicted pollutant concentrations for scenario 4 were below the 
relevant short-term environmental standards (ES) for PM10, CO and SO2 at all 
receptor locations and are not considered to be significant. For short-term 
pollutant concentration for NO2 exceedances were predicted for human health, 
however annual testing is 4 hours, so more than 18 exceedances of the short-
term standard is not possible.  
Our check modelling assessment showed that there is a potential for exceedance 
of the short-term NO2 environmental standard for Unit 1, however the probability 
of an exceedance is considered less than 5% and therefore unlikely. 
For Unit 1 an exceedance of the 1-hour Acute Exposure Guidance Level (AEGL) 
1 was  also predicted by the Applicant’s modelling assessment , the PEC is 
predicted to be 100.1% of the AEGL1 . The Applicant stated that “AEGL 1 
represents the least severe health effects which are transient and reversible upon 
cessation of exposure”. The assumptions used in the modelling assessment are 
considered to be highly  conservative and therefore the marginal exceedance of 
the AEGL1 is unlikely to occur under actual operating conditions  and we are 
therefore satisfied there will be no significant health impacts. 
The predicted pollutant concentrations from Unit 2 were below the relevant short-
term environmental standards (ES) for NO2, PM10, CO and SO2 at all receptor 
locations and are not considered to be significant. 
 
Predicted Impacts for Testing Scenarios 5 & 6 Unit 1 & Unit 2 - In the event of 
power grid outage (all generators running simultaneously for 72 hours at 100% 
load). This has examined each unit operating individually, and a worst -case 
scenario of both units operating simultaneously. 
For emergency scenario 5 for Unit 1 & Unit 2, the Applicant’s assessment 
predicted no exceedances of short-term environmental standards (ES) for PM10, 
CO and SO2 at all receptor locations and are not considered to be significant. 
 
For NO2 the Applicant’s assessment showed an exceedance of the short -term 
environmental standard was predicted,  however the hypergeometric probability 
calculation shows less than 0.01% probability of exceeding the objective more than 
the 18 allowed exceedances . They also predicted a marginal exceedance of the 