 
Crawley Data Centre Campus        EPR/EP3022ST               Page 7 of 19 
legislation provides a lower but important level of protection for SSSIs. Finally the 
Environment Act provides more generalised protection for flora and fauna rather 
than for specifically named conservation designations. It is under the 
Environment Act that we assess other sites (such as local wildlife sites) which 
prevents us from permitting something that will result in significant pollution; and 
which offers levels of protection proportionate with other European and national 
legislation. However, it should not be assumed that because levels of protection 
are less stringent for these other sites that they are not of considerable 
importance. Local sites link and support EU and national nature conservation 
sites together and hence help to maintain the UK’s biodiversity resilience. 
For SACs SPAs, Ramsar and SSSIs we consider the PC and the background 
levels in making an assessment of impact. In assessing these other sites under 
the Environment Act we look at the impact from the Installation alone in order to 
determine whether it would cause significant pollution. This is a proportionate 
approach, in line with the levels of protection offered by the conservation 
legislation to protect these other sites (which are generally more numerous than 
Natura 2000 or SSSIs) whilst ensuring that we do not restrict development.  
 
Critical levels and loads are set to protect the most vulnerable habitat types. 
Thresholds change in accordance with the levels of protection afforded by the 
legislation. Therefore, the thresholds for SAC SPA and SSSI features are more 
stringent than those for other nature conservation sites. 
 
Therefore, we would generally conclude that the Installation is not causing 
significant pollution at these other sites if the PC is less than the relevant critical 
level or critical load, provided that the Operator is using BAT to control emissions.  
 
The Applicant’s assessment shows that the PCs at the non-statutory local wildlife 
and conservation sites  listed above will be below the relevant critical levels or 
loads. We are therefore satisfied that the Installation will not cause significant 
pollution at the sites. The Operator is required to prevent, minimise and control 
emissions using BAT, and this is considered further in Section 5. 
 
4. Noise and Vibration 
 
Based upon the information in the Application we are satisfied that the appropriate 
measures will be in place to prevent or where that is not practicable to minimise 
noise and vibration and to prevent pollution from noise and vibration outside the 
site. 
 
The Operator and the local Environment Agency compliance team have confirmed 
that the site does not have a history of noise complaints. The generators have 
acoustic housing to reduce noise emissions. Other than in the unlikely event of a 
complete loss of power to the site the generators will only operate for short periods 
(see testing scenarios in section 3 above) and the Applicant has confirmed that 
testing of the generators will not take place at night.  