 
 Page 5 of 17 
Our audit of the modelling agrees with the operator’s conclusion that 
exceedances of any relevant long-term environmental standard of any pollutant 
assessed is unlikely.  
 
Ecological Receptors: 
 
Short-term and long-term impacts were considered. The modelling considered air-
borne NOx,. In addition to nitrogen deposition and acidification  considering inputs 
from both Nitrogen and Sulphur Dioxide.  
 
The short and long-term emissions either screened out alone where the process 
contribution (PC) was less than 1% or 10% of the significance threshold or, 
following the consideration of background concentrations, where the Predicted 
Environmental Concentration (PEC) was less than 100% of the significance 
threshold. Therefore, on this basis all short and long-term emissions screen out 
and no further assessment is necessary. 
 
Our audit of the modelling agrees with the operator’s conclusion that NOx, 
nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition exceedances of all environmental standards 
for any pollutant are unlikely.  
 
Emergency scenario 
 
The emergency scenario that has been modelled is based upon all generators 
operating simultaneously for  37 hours. The number of hours used has not been 
defined based upon an anticipated emergency scenario  or the amount of fuel 
stored on site (48 hours) . It is a calculated value which defines the maximum 
number of hours the site could operate during an emergency for the probability of 
an exceedance to be highly unlikely for human receptors or unlikely for ecological 
receptors.  
 
Prolonged operation of the installation is not expected. Short term operation is 
more realistic for the reasons described below. 
 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the reliability of 
the National Electricity Grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency (EA) to 
judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged 
periods in an emergency mode is low. As this is a new bespoke application, there 
are no records available for historical outages at the site. There are historic 
records for the operational CyrusOne UK4 Limited datacentres referred to as 
CyrusOne London 1 (not regulated by the EA), CyrusOne London 2 (not 
regulated under EPR) and CyrusOne London 3 (not regulated by the EA). There 
is no record of any grid failure at these installations (response to request for 
information 23/02/2022). 
 