 
 Page 8 of 17 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any 
electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require both 
annual reporting and immediate notification to the Environment Agency. 
 
Noise 
 
The site will only run each generator regularly as part of the testing regime for 9.5 
hours per year. This occurs during daytime hours between 15:00 and 17:00 
during week days. Maintenance and testing is not classed as part of normal 
operations.  
 
Prolonged operation will only occur in an emergency situation where the National 
Grid supply is lost. As this is a new installation then it is not possible to consider 
historical outage. There are no records available for historical outages at the site. 
There are historic records for the operational CyrusOne UK4 Limited installations 
referred to as CyrusOne London 1 (not regulated by the EA), CyrusOne London 
2 (not regulated by the EA) and CyrusOne London 3 (EPR/EP3608PM/A001). 
There is no record of a grid failure at these installations (response to request for 
information 23/02/2022). In addition, evidence in the application of the reliability 
of the National Electricity Grid distribution has been provided to support the 
Environment Agency’s view that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to 
operate for prolonged periods is low. Therefore, the potential for prolonged noise 
is also considered to be low. 
Despite this, the operator has taken measures to minimise noise emissions. 
These include the housing of the generators within acoustic enclosures 
(containers). The engine exhausts are fitted with reactive noise attenuators. 
Vehicle movements are limited to day time hours and fuel deliveries will be 
infrequent. All plant is maintained and operated in line with the manufacturer’s 
instructions. The operator also commissioned a noise impact assessment which 
concluded that there would not be an impact on background daytime and night 
time noise levels. There is a low impact from noise. We have not reviewed this 
assessment, although agree that the impacts will be low due to the limited hours 
of operation combined with the proposed noise mitigation measures which we 
accept are sufficient to control noise arising from the installation. 
 
BAT 
 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators. We requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of 
engine, the particular configuration and plant sizing to meet the standby 
arrangement (e.g. 2n).  
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3. The emissions from the 