 
 Page 6 of 17 
This is a new site and all generators installed meet TA-Luft 2g emissions 
standards. The stack height for the generators is 16.5m which is above the height 
of the surrounding buildings. The diesel generators installed are in line with BAT, 
and dispersion has been maximised. 
 
An emergency outage is an event that will be for a number of hours. Therefore, 
only short-term assessment criteria need to be considered. No exceedances are 
predicted for the pollutants PM10, SO2 and CO. These screen out and are not 
considered below. Discussion below is with regards to short term NO2 and NOx.  
 
Human Receptors: 
 
For Scenario 3, the operator predicts that the 99.79th percentile 1-hour NO2 ES 
is likely to be exceeded if Scenario 3 operates for 19 hours or more during the 
worst-case meteorological conditions.  
 
The next stage is to calculate the probability of this predicted exceedance 
occurring through a hypergeometric probability distribution assessment. The 
results of the assessment were that the probability of an exceedance of the 1-
hour NO2 ES remains below 1% as long as the number of hours of operation do 
not exceed 37 hours a year. A probability of less than 1% is defined as a highly 
unlikely event in our guidance. The predicted emissions during Scenario 3 are 
therefore, concluded as being acceptable. 
 
Our audit of the modelling confirms that short term process contributions of NO2 
are highly unlikely to cause an exceedance at any of the receptors. Therefore, we 
agree with the operators conclusions. 
 
Ecological Receptors: 
 
The operator predicts exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level of 75 
µg/m3 at all of the non-statutory ecological sites included in the assessment 
based on Scenario 3 occurring for 24-hours during the worst-case meteorological 
conditions. The operator concludes that due to the infrequent operations of 
Scenario 3, exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level are unlikely to occur 
in reality. The consultant has not gone to the next stage and provided quantitative 
evidence for their conclusions such as a statistical analysis based upon a 
hypergeometric probability distribution.  
 
The consultant does not predict any exceedances at European designated 
statutory ecological sites. 
 
Our audit of the modelling confirms that short term process contributions of NO2 
are unlikely (less than 5% probability) to cause an exceedance at any of the 
habitats receptors. This is based on our own statistical analysis using the 
hypergeometric probability distribution and consideration that Scenario 3 is an 
event that is highly unlikely to occur.  