 
Variation and consolidation application number  
EPR/EP3507SL/V002  2 
 
 
Docklands Technical Centre  
Permit number EPR/EP3507SL 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice. 
The following notice gives notice of the variation of environmental permits A 
(EPR/EP3507SL) and B (EPR/SP3237JU) referred to in the status logs below and the 
replacement of those permits with a consolidated environmental permit. 
The variation is for 
• At Telehouse South - Replacement of 10 horizontal stack standby diesel generators 
with 4 new generators. The new generators will have vertical stacks and will be 
fitted with selective catalytic reduction (SCR) abatement for oxides of nitrogen 
reducing NOx emissions to approximately 235 mg/m3. Removal of gas boilers. 
• Consolidation of the currently separately permitted Docklands data centre 
(Telehouse North EPR/SP3237JU), with Docklands Technical Centre (Telehouse 
South EPR/EP3507SL). The operation Telehouse North is unchanged by this 
variation. 
The schedules specify the changes made to the permit. 
Brief description of the process 
The permit covers two data centres that although are on different sites form a single 
installation. The two sites are Telehouse South (TS) and Telehouse North (TN). Electrical 
power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a 
failure in the electrical supply, the operator will utilise emergency diesel generators to 
maintain operational resilience. The generators will be used solely for the purpose of 
generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the installation. 
The operator has an Environment Management System that covers the entire installation 
and is certified to ISO 14001. 
Telehouse South 
The site consists of 4 x 8.816 MWth diesel engines. The engines are fitted with SCR 
abatement to minimise emissions of oxides of nitrogen. Combustion gases are emitted via 
vertical 20m high stacks. Each engine has a belly tank for diesel storage and will be 
bunded to prevent accidental release of diesel. There is no process effluent discharge 
from the site. Uncontaminated water from roof and hard standing run off drain via 
interceptors to the public sewer. 