 
 Page 11 of 17 
Environment Management System and associated procedures have not yet been 
completed an Improvement Condition (IC6) has been included requesting that we 
are informed when these are ready for inspection. 
Drainage drawings are provided in the application, with the final drainage design 
being provide in accordance with Improvement Condition 5. Details of the 
existing condition of the Site can be found in the Site Condition Report supplied 
with the application. We have reviewed the SCR and consider it to provide a 
suitable basis for defining the condition of the land at permit issue. 
 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. 
 
In particular we have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from 
emission points for all standby generators as listed in table S3.1 of the permit 
(EPR/EP3508PS) (new medium combustion plant), with a minimum frequency of 
once every 1500 hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes first). 
This monitoring has been included in the permit in order to comply with the 
requirements of Medium Combustion Plant Directive, which specifies the 
minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless 
of the limited operating hours of the plant. 
 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides from emission 
points for all standby generators as listed in table S3.1 of the permit 
(EPR/EP3508PS) (new medium combustion plant), with the same frequency 
specified for the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this 
requirement, we have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this 
limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide 
monitoring, is proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from 
the installation.  
 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the generators operating at 
the installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 4 months of 
the issue date of the permit or the date when each new medium combustion plant 
is first put into operation, whichever is later. 
 
We have set an improvement condition (IC2) requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in the permit.  