 
 Page 15 of 17 
generators will be used during emergency operation and is to be produced 
jointly with the Local Authority. 
• IC2 - We have set this improvement condition requesting the operator to 
submit a monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing 
the operator’s proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring 
requirements specified in the permit. 
• IC3 – We have set this improvement condition to ensure that the final 
design of the tertiary containment system and that the proposed measures 
for the above ground pipework meet the requirements of CIRIA C736. 
Therefore, providing robust systems in the event of a spillage or loss of 
containment, minimising any risk of diesel escaping into the environment. 
• IC4 – The drainage design that has been provided with the application 
may be subject to change as part of the final design. This improvement 
condition requests the details of the final design to allow us to review this 
and to ensure that it provides suitable environmental protection. 
 
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be added for the following parameters, 
using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified: 
• Oxides of Nitrogen (NO and NO2 expressed as NO2) 
• Carbon monoxide 
 
See Key Issues section for further details. 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is being 
operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to ensure that 
we are notified immediately in the instance that the site ever operates in 
emergency scenario mode. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 