 
 Page 7 of 17 
 
Cumulative Long-term Impacts of Maintenance testing and Emergency 
scenario 
 
The operator does not predict any exceedances of the long-term environmental 
standards for any pollutant during any scenario. The operator has considered the 
long-term impacts of pollutants for each scenario individually and has not 
considered the cumulative impacts of all scenarios throughout the year. We 
included this as Scenario 4 as part of our audit. All pollutants assessed against 
the relevant long term environmental standards were insignificant when the 
impacts are considered cumulatively.  
 
Permit conditions  
 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby 
operational limit’ for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits 
of the combustion activity. This operational limit applies to the installation as a 
whole. As operations are restricted to 500 hours, emission limit values (ELVs) to 
air are not required within the permit.  
 
The Environment Agency expects the number of and duration of planned testing 
and generator operations to be minimised as much as possible (subject to client 
requirements). The BAT expectation is that individual generator testing is below 
50 hours/annum which is drawn from the MCPD specified generator guidance. In 
this instance the operator is maintaining and testing each generator for a total of 
9.5 hours a year (based on email attachment provided 12/11/2021). This is in line 
with BAT and below the level at which ELVs would be needed. 
 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power 
operation’ such as demand side response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term 
operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and Frequency 
Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to 
differentiate data centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the 
balancing market and importantly provide a clear way to demonstrate 
minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air 
quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, phasing generators into 
subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and 
most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
As explained previously in the Air Quality section of this document, under the 
heading Emergency Scenario, the risk of the generators needing to operate for a 
prolonged period of time is low.  