 
    Page 4 of 14 
- Testing shall not be carried out at more than two northern campus (TN) buildings, within any 
24-hour period in which the southern campus building (TS) is also tested.  
- Testing shall not be carried out at both the North and West buildings within the same 24 -
hour period 
  
2. Air quality 
The operator carried out dispersion modelling using AERMOD v11.0. Impacts at 
sensitive human and ecological receptors were quantified for two scenarios: 
• Routine Maintenance and testing  
• Emergency Outage Operations – the unpredictable emergency grid 
outage any time during the year requiring the maximum plant to operate 
for the required outage duration.  
 
2.1 Outage time period 
Modelling was based on a 26 hour outage, the operator justified this as 
follows. The outage period was based upon the previous Schedule 5 
questions, CAR forms, and Air Quality Action Plans (AQAP) that were revised 
at the request from the Environment Agency since the last application in 
response to nearby developments and new exposure locations (specifically 
the Travel Lodge and Orchard Wharf).  The Environment Agency requested 
that the number of hours was calculated below which would not lead to a 
greater than 5% probability of exceedance of an ES to inform the AQAP. This 
was carried through to this risk assessment and applied in the site wide 
outage scenario, now including Telehouse South, for consistency with the 
previous work. 
2.2 Pollutants considered 
The operator modelled emissions of NOx. SCR abatement is proposed for the 
new generators. Modelling of ammonia due to ammonia slip was not required 
because: 
• Emissions will be < 10 mg/m3 
• The human health ES for ammonia are much higher than the NOx ES 
at 2,500 µg/m3 hourly mean and 180 µg/m3 annual mean. 
• The ammonia ES for ecological sites is an annual average and so any 
short term emissions of ammonia would have a negligible impact on 
any ecological sites. 
 
The SCR abatement will have a 10 minute warm up period. Higher NOx 
emission during the warm up period was included in the operators impact 
assessment. 