 
Permit number 
EPR/EP3507SL 19 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
TN IC2 The operator shall produce a report outlining the maintenance 
and operating regime following the first year of operation 
following permitting. This shall include but is not limited to the 
following points:  
• reduce routine operating hours to less than 50 hours 
per year, per SBG; 
• a justification for not reducing the operating hours if 
this isn’t put in place; and 
• any additional improvements that have been identified 
to reduce emissions during the maintenance testing 
and operation of the generators. This should include 
timescales for the implementation of the 
improvements.  
The operator shall submit this report in writing to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
Complete 
TN IC3 The operator shall undertake an investigation into the following 
two proposals: 
• installing an oil interceptor on the surface water 
drainage system around the North Building; and 
• diverting the surface water runoff around the North 
Building via an existing oil interceptor.   
A report should be produced outlining which option they will 
proceed with, justification for why it is the most appropriate 
method and the timescales for the implementation.   
The operator shall implement the proposals as agreed in 
writing with the Environment Agency. 
 
Complete 
TN IC4 Short-term nitrogen oxide concentrations 
 
The operator shall submit a written review to the Environment 
Agency for approval of options to reduce short term impacts at 
nearby receptors due to emissions of oxides of nitrogen. The 
review shall take into account the environmental standards for 
NO2 and NO, and the AEGL-1 for NO2. 
This shall include but not necessarily be limited to:  
• Revised testing programme 
• Stack height of configuration 
• Retrofitting abatement 
• Replacement engines with lower emissions 
The review shall include an updated risk assessment to show 
the effect on impacts of each option. 
The review shall also include proposals for which measures will 
be implemented along with timescales for implementing. 
  
Any agreed proposals shall be implemented by the operator in 
line with the timescales approved by the Environment Agency. 
Within 12 months 
from the date of issue 
of the variation  
EPR/EP3507SL/V002 