 
 Page 9 of 17 
engines at 92% load is 2019mg/m3. The engines would typically operate at 80% 
load during emergency operations. The emissions data sheet is considered to be 
broadly representative of the expected emissions from the plant. The emissions 
are slightly over the emissions standard, however, this is still considered as 
acceptable.  
 
 All the generators meet the TA-Luft standard emissions based upon the 
confirmed typical operation of the generators at approximately 80% load.  
 
The site comprises of two datacentres, LON4 and LON5. The number and size of 
the generators matches the demand requirements of each datacentre suite. The 
site operates to an n+1 standby arrangement, where n is the load requirement of 
the data centre.  
 
Each of the engines is sized to meet the electrical load of the electrical system it 
serves. The largest most efficient engine has been chosen based upon the 
design load requirement. The configuration is based upon a single generator type 
to optimise maintenance processes and deliver resilience through the familiarity 
of the generator systems. The number of generators is equal to the number of 
electrical systems. As each generator supports a specific electrical system it will 
only operate if supply to that specific system fails. This allows flexibility in 
operation where there is an onside localised failure of an electrical system.  
 
Therefore, the selection of multiple smaller generator sets provides a flexibility 
advantage over the selection of fewer, larger generator sets. Depending on the 
scale of a utility interruption event, it allows for a reduced number of generators 
to run as each generator only runs to support its individual system. If fewer, 
larger sets were installed to support multiple systems, the generator would run 
whether some or all of the systems it supported were affected, leading to 
potentially significant overcapacity and higher fuel use. The result of which would 
lead to potentially higher emission of combustion gases. Therefore, it is 
considered in this situation that a greater number of small-scale generators is 
BAT. 
 
To minimise the need for emergency operation, the site has two electricity 
supplies. To address short term fluctuations, brown-outs or black-outs, the site 
has uninterruptable power supplies. This can supply power for short periods 
preventing the need for the generators to kick in.  
 
Protection of Groundwater 
 
There are no fugitive emissions to land or groundwater from the data centre. 
There is a controlled discharge of surface water to ground via soakaways. All 
surface water discharged via soakaways first goes through an oil interceptor. 
 
The generators are located in containers on a concrete hardstanding. All 
operational areas, roads and external areas are on impermeable surfacing with 
surface waters directed to the drainage system. Raw materials used on the 