 
    Page 8 of 14 
site meet this standard. We agree with the operator that the engines are BAT for 
the proposed operation. 
6. Fuel storage and delivery 
The existing 2 fuel storage tanks will be removed. The 4 new containerised SBGs 
will each have individual belly tanks. Each tank will have 18,000 litre diesel 
storage capacity. The belly tanks will automatically supply diesel to the SBG. The 
belly tanks will be bunded (110% capacity) and will be designed to British 
Standard BS799 Part 5 2010 (Oil Burning Equipment. Carbon steel oil storage 
tanks. Specification). 
The tanks will have the following measures: 
• Bund 110% capacity. 
• Tank level gauge 
• High and low level alarms 
• A pressure delivery over-fill prevention valve 
• Leak detection alarms 
• Pressure relief valves to prevent over pressurisation of diesel supplied 
from the belly tanks. 
• Pipework will be painted or constructed of corrosion resistant material 
 
The belly tanks will be filled directly from refuelling vehicles by a Telehouse 
appointed fuel supplier and in accordance with fuel delivery procedures in the 
EMS. Fuel will be delivered directly to the belly tanks via the new diesel fill point 
located at ground level in a dedicated tanker refuelling area. 
Tertiary containment will be provided by the roof level of the SBG where the 
generators will be located, and by the contoured hardstanding of the area where 
the road tanker refuelling area and refuelling point will be located, additionally 
raised kerbing will be present along the site perimeter. These tertiary 
containment measures (along with the capacity of the oil interceptor and surface 
water drainage) will be designed to provide containment of a single chamber of a 
fuel delivery tanker (7,600 litres). Any unplanned release of diesel would be 
prevented from percolating into the ground by the hardstanding; should such a 
release enter the local on-site surface water drainage system it would be 
captured by the alarmed interceptor (Class 1 forecourt petrol interceptor 
designed with a holding capacity of 7,600 litres) which will have an automatic 
shut off device that will activate on detection of diesel in the interceptor (this 
alarm will be connected to the building management system. In such an event, 
spillage procedures would be implemented. 
7. Emission limits 
Based on the operational requirements, we have not set any emission limits. 