 
    Page 7 of 14 
The table above shows that impacts are insignificant with long term PC<1% and 
short term <10%. 
We are satisfied that there will be no likely significant effect. 
There are no SSSIs within 2km. 
There are several local nature reserves and local wildlife sites within 2km. 
Process contributions were below the critical levels and critical loads for the 
routine testing and maintenance scenario. Exceedances during an outage are 
unlikely do to grid reliability 
 
 
3. Noise 
The Applicant provided noise impact assessment. The assessment considered 
the changes to TS and cumulative impacts with TN. The assessment used 
BS4142 to assess the likelihood of noise impacts at nearby receptors. We 
audited the assessment and agree that there is likely to be a low impact from 
standby generator testing and emergency scenarios. 
4. Operating hours 
The new SBGs (Medium Combustion Plant (MCP)) will be operated on limited 
hours, with permit tables S1.1 and S1.2 securing the necessary requirements. 
New MCPs operating less than 500 hours per year are exempt from meeting 
Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) emission limits, refer to Emission 
limits section of this document. 
5. Best Available Technique (BAT) 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. 
The Data Centre FAQ specifies the BAT emissions specification for new diesel-
fired reciprocating engines as 2g TA-Luft or EPA Tier 2 with guaranteed 
emissions compliant (or equivalent standard). The replaced SBGs at the TS data 
centre will be Tier 2 (optimised emissions) compliant. They will also have 
abatement which will reduce NOx emissions by 90% to < 236 mg/m3, well below 
the 2,000 mg/m3 standard. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant, to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air (NOx), is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000 mg/m3. The generators on the 