 
 Page 2 of 17 
Key issues of the decision 
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes back-up generation 
capacity, a Schedule 1, Section 1.1 Part A (1) (a) activity under the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 (the burning of 
any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts 
(MW).  
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an 
emergency scenario. The emergency combustion activity comprises 32 diesel 
fuelled standby generators. Each generator has a thermal input of 6.29 MW and 
has a stack which is16.5m in height. 
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, 
in the event of a failure in the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the 
generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators will be used solely 
for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported 
from the installation. There are two datacentres on the site referred to as LON4 
and LON5. Each data centre is served by 16 generators, which are arranged into 
two banks of 8 generators. There are two electricity feeds from the National Grid. 
In the event that one of the feeds fails then the generators connected to that feed 
would start until power is reinstated or until all transformers are supplied by the 
remaining feed. If both electricity feeds fail, if the supply became variable or there 
was a National Grid outage then all of the generators would start. Once a secure 
electricity supply has been established the generators will shutdown sequentially. 
All the generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule.  
 
The generators run on diesel fuel. All generators are housed in separate 
containers with each having a 31,000 litre diesel storage tank located underneath 
each generator. Each tank has an integral bund of 110% capacity. There are no 
bulk oil storage tanks located on the site.   
 
The site is covered in concrete hardstanding. The surface drainage system 
directs run-off into an oil interceptor prior to discharge from site to a series of 
soakaways. There will be tertiary containment provided throughout the site which 
will be designed and constructed in line with the requirements of CIRIA 736, full 
details of the final design will be provided by Improvement Condition 3.  
 
The testing schedule is as follows for each of the 32 generators. All testing is 
undertaken between 15:00 and 17:00 during school term time and is undertaken 
between 09:00 and 15:00 during school holiday periods. This is a requirement of 
the planning permission due to the proximity of a local school: 
1. Monthly off load engine runs - 10 months out of 12 in each year. All 
engines are individually tested for 15-30 minutes each, off-load. Only one 
engine tested at once. 