 
Permit number             
EPR/EP3508PS 12 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a National Grid failure. This should include but not 
be limited to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at 
individual receptors;  
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit the 
duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours as far as 
possible; 
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a National Grid failure might 
influence the response required, for example meteorological 
conditions or time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
 
Within 6 months from 
the date of issue of 
the permit 
EPR/EP3508PS/A001 
30/09/2022 
IC2 The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for written approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of 
the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in Table S3.1, in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified 
generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
The plan shall include, but not be limited to: 
- When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a proposal 
to install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
- Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints 
affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed 
deviation from the testing regime specified in table S3.1.  
 
Within 3 months from 
the date of issue of 
the permit 
EPR/EP3508PS/A001 
30/06/2022 
IC3 The Operator shall carry out a review of the site’s final design for the 
tertiary containment system and oil distribution pipework which serves 
the oil and diesel storage tanks.  
 
The review shall compare the system’s design, method of construction 
and integrity against the standards outlined in CIRIA guidance C736 – 
Containment Systems for the Prevention of Pollution or an equivalent 
industry standard. The review shall include: 
 
• a review of how the tertiary containment protects the site 
soakaways. 
• Discussion on measures in place to support the above ground 
pipework and how joints within the pipework will be managed. 
 
A written report of the review shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for written approval which details: 
• The review’s findings and recommendations; 
• Proposals for the implementation of recommended 
improvements; and 
• Timescales for implementation of improvements. 
Within 6 months from 
the date of issue of 
the permit 
EPR/EP3508PS/A001 
30/09/2022 