 
    Page 5 of 14 
2.3 Human receptors 
The operator modelled both maintenance testing and also an emergency outage 
operation.  We audited the operators modelling. Whilst our absolute numerical 
predictions do not entirely agree with the applicant’s predictions, considering 
expected modelling uncertainties, we are satisfied that the applicant’s numerical 
predictions at human health receptors are a reasonable worst-case, and we 
agree with their conclusions regarding human health. 
 
2.3.1 Testing for TS  
The operator modelled the impact of the maintenance and testing regime for 10 
replacement SBGs at the TS data centre. When we audited the air dispersion 
modelling we found a possible exceedance at receptor HR37 of the NO2 AEGL-1 
and the 1 hour NO EAL. We asked the operator to consider an amended testing 
regime which they did but also changed their proposal to only install 4 new 
engines rather than the original 10. The operator had requested that the 
additional 6 could be added through a pre-operational condition. We did not 
agree to this. Due to us needing to re-assess any revised dispersion modelling to 
ensure no exceedances, our view is that a further variation application would be 
required to add the other 6 engines. Our findings from our audit of the amended 
modelling are summarised below: 
• Exceedances of the ST NO2 ES at sensitive human health receptor 
locations are high unlikely (below 1%) using statistical methods 
(hypergeometric distribution). 
• Maximum PCs against the 10-minute and 1-hour AEGL-1 and 1-hour NO 
EAL are not insignificant (>10%). PECs are unlikely to exceed AEGL-1 or 
the EAL. To calculate 10-minute averaged PCs, we have used the 1-hour 
to 15-minute conversion factor of 1.34 from our guidance1. For NO, we 
have assumed that 90% of NOX is NO.  
• Maximum predicted annual NO2 PC is ‘not insignificant’ (>1%) at the 
maximally impacted receptor. The PEC is unlikely to exceed the ES. 
• Maximum predicted annual NO PC is insignificant (<1%) at the maximally 
impacted receptor. 
 
2.3.2 Testing for TN 
We cannot rule out exceedance of the 1-hour NO2 ES, 10-minute and 1-hour 
NO2 AEGL-1 and the 1-hour NO ES, should testing operations coincide with the 
worst-case meteorological conditions.  
 
 