 
 Page 4 of 17 
during August. We consider the consultant’s assumptions to be 
representative of operations. 
 
2. Scenario 2 represents the annual Mains Failure Test (maintenance test 4 
above) where each data centre is tested individually for 90 minutes. 
Therefore, 16 generators are assumed to be operational simultaneously. 
Although the testing could be conducted during school term time the 
scenario has assumed that it will be undertaken between 09:00 and 17:00 
during the school holidays. The consultant has used an emission factoring 
file to only model emissions from Scenario 2 between the hours of 09:00 
and 17:00 Monday to Friday during August. We consider the consultant’s 
assumptions to be representative of operations. 
 
3. Scenario 3 represents an emergency power outage event where all 32 
generators are modelled as operating together for a maximum of 37 hours 
a year.  
 
Maintenance testing 
 
Human Receptors: 
 
Short Term impacts 
 
Scenarios 1 and 2 – There were no predicted exceedances of any Environmental 
Standard (ES) for any pollutant assessed.  
 
The short-term emissions either screened out alone where the process 
contribution (PC) was less than 10% of the significance threshold or, following 
the consideration of background concentrations, where the Predicted 
Environmental Concentration (PEC) was less than 100% of the significance 
threshold. Therefore, on this basis all short-term emissions screen out and no 
further assessment is necessary. 
 
Our audit of the modelling confirms that short term process contributions are 
unlikely to cause an exceedance at any of the receptors for any pollutant. 
 
Long Term impacts 
 
Scenarios 1 and 2 - There were no predicted exceedances of any Environmental 
Standard (ES) for any pollutant assessed.   
 
The long-term emissions either screened out alone where the process 
contribution (PC) was less than 1% of the significance threshold or, following the 
consideration of background concentrations, where the Predicted Environmental 
Concentration (PEC) was less than 100% of the significance threshold. 
Therefore, on this basis all long-term emissions screen out and no further 
assessment is necessary. 
 