 
Permit number             
EPR/EP3508PS 2 
 
CyrusOne London 4/5 Datacentres  
Permit number EPR/EP3508PS 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows:   
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes back-up generation capacity, a Schedule 1, Section 
1.1 Part A (1) 1.1 activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 (the 
burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). The site is located 
on the edge of an industrial estate adjacent to a residential area. The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 
95240 80620. The site is approximately 4.07 hectares in size. The surrounding area is a mix of industrial, 
commercial and residential uses. 
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The 
emergency combustion activity comprises 32 diesel fuelled standby generators. Each generator has a thermal 
input of 6.29 MW. The aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 201.28 MWth. Each generator has an 
exhaust, which is 16.5m above ground level and are above the height of the closest buildings.  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in the 
electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators will be 
used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. There are two datacentres on the site referred to as LON4 and LON5. Each data centre is served by 
16 generators, which are arranged into two banks of 8 generators. There are two electri city feeds from the 
National Grid. In the event that one of the feeds fails then the generators connected to that feed would start until 
power is reinstated or until all transformers are supplied by the remaining feed. If both electricity feeds fail, if the 
supply became variable or there was a National Grid outage then all of the generators would start. Once a 
secure electricity supply has been established the generators will shutdown sequentially. All the generators are 
subject to a maintenance testing schedule.  
 
The engines run on diesel fuel which is stored in 32 diesel storage tanks. Each generator has its own dedicated 
storage tank which is located above ground on concrete plinths underneath each generator, which are housed 
in steel containers. The tanks store 31,000 litres each and each tank has an integral bund of 110% capacity. 
The site is covered in concrete hardstanding. The surface drainage system directs run -off into an oil interceptor 
prior to discharge from site to a series of soakaways. There will be tertiary containment provided throughout the 
site which will be designed and constructed in line with the requirements of CIRIA 736, full details of which will 
be provided by Improvement Condition 3.  
 
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number. 
Status log of the permit 
Description Date Comments 
Application EPR/EP3508PS/A001 Duly made 
12/11/2021 
Application for Data Centre operating 32 standby diesel 
powered generators. 
Additional information received 04/02/2022 Response to Schedule 5 Notice (dated 15/12/2021) 
providing further details regarding: discharge to water 
controls, electrical outage procedures, maintenance 
testing, control measures in place during diesel 
delivery, diesel distribution pipework, diesel 
containment measures, Best Available Techniques 