 
 Page 3 of 17 
2. Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) servicing – 2 months out of 12 
each year service test. All engines are individually tested for 15-30 
minutes each, off-load. Only one engine is tested at once. 
3. Load Bank Testing - Once per year. All engines are individually tested for 
60 minutes each, on-load. Only one engine tested at once. 
4. Mains Failure Testing – Once per year. All engines operate simultaneously 
for 60-90 minutes and support the building load, on-load.  
 
Air Quality  
 
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO2) resulting 
from the combustion process on site. The Applicant submitted an air dispersion 
modelling report (CyrusOne 4 and 5, Air Quality Assessment, March 2021, 
Ramboll, Ref 1690013863) and an addendum to this report (CyrusOne 4 and 5, 
Air Quality Assessment, 12/11/2021, Ramboll, Ref 1620011380); which assesses 
the potential impact of emissions of NO2, particulates (PM10), sulphur dioxide 
(SO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) from the generators on local air quality.  
 
The operator has confirmed that the generators will be operating at around 80% 
load during an emergency scenario in the event of the loss of power from the 
National Grid. The emission concentrations used in the air quality modelling were 
2000mg/m3 NOx. This is consistent with the TA-Luft 2g emissions standard.  
Emissions data sheets for the engines have been provided by the operator, 
which we consider as being representative of the emissions from the engines. 
They confirm that the engine emissions are broadly in line with the TA-Luft 2g 
standard and are achievable, and thus the emissions concentration used in the 
modelling is appropriate (See BAT section of this document).   
 
We audited the air dispersion modelling and report submitted with the permit 
application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
modelling were assessed. We agreed with the operator’s conclusions that 
predicted levels for the four testing regimes and emergency operations were 
unlikely to cause an exceedance of the Environmental Standard (ES) for human 
receptors and ecological receptors for NO2, PM10, SO2 and CO.  
 
Three modelling scenarios were run to represent the operations at the 
installation. Scenarios 1 and 2 represent the routine testing and maintenance 
operations. Scenario 3 represents an emergency power outage where there is 
loss of power from the National Grid or from an internal power supply failure. 
 
1. Scenario 1 represents the monthly testing of the generators (maintenance 
tests 1, 2 and 3 above). Scenario 1 is modelled assuming that all testing is 
Load Bank Testing (maintenance test 3 above). Therefore, this scenario 
assumes that each generator is operated individually for 60 minutes and 
will produce the worst-case results. The consultant has used an emission 
factoring file to only model emissions from Scenario 1 between the hours 
of 15:00 and 17:00 Monday to Friday for all weeks of the year except 