 
    Page 9 of 14 
As there are no limits, permit condition 2.3.5 ‘The activities shall not operate for 
more than 500 hours per year’ has been included to restrict the hours of 
operation. The operator will be required to record operating hours and the 
number of runs for each of the generators. 
8. Monitoring requirements 
8.1 Telehouse South 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from the 
emission points from the new SBGs (defined as new MCPs). The monitoring 
frequency is once within four months of the issue date of this variation or the date 
when the generators are first put into operation, whichever is later, then every 
1,500 hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This 
monitoring has been included in the permit to comply with the requirements of the 
MCPD, which specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon 
monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of NOx with the same frequency 
specified for the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this 
requirement, we have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this 
limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide 
monitoring, is proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from 
the installation. 
 
8.2 Telehouse North 
The permit is for 27 SBGs, 19 of these are classed as existing MCPs. The other 
8 are classed new MCPs with 5 of the 8 already installed. 
We have specified the same monitoring requirement as for the new MCPs listed 
above. However, in line with MCPD the monitoring will commence from 2030 for 
MCP 5 MW or less and from 2025 for MCP > 5 MW. 
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the generators operating at 
the installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for carbon 
monoxide and NOx, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
The operator did not specify any monitoring requirements in their application. We 
have set an improvement condition requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan.  
  