 
 Page 10 of 17 
installation are diesel fuel, lubricating oils and coolant. Diesel fuel is stored in 
bunded tanks. Lubricating oils and coolants are stored within the engine 
containers and are manually topped up during servicing. Therefore, the risk of 
any source of potential contamination discharging to land is minimised. No 
wastes are stored on site. Waste oil and coolant is removed off-site for disposal 
following any maintenance. 
 
The diesel belly tanks are designed to comply with the Oil Storage Regulations 
2001. Suitable measures are in place with regards to fuel containment which 
include: 
 
• The diesel storage tanks are fully-bunded with an integral bund providing 
110% of the volume of the storage tank. There are no bulk storage tanks.   
• Tertiary containment will be in place at the installation which will comply 
with the requirements of CIRIA C736. This will allow the retention of more 
than 110% of the capacity of a 31,000 litre diesel storage tank on the 
installation. Full details will be provided through Improvement Condition 3 
• The diesel tanks have bund alarms which would sound in the event of 
failure of the primary containment. 
• The generator container is designed to hold the entire contents of the day 
tank (stores diesel for use in generator transferred from diesel storage 
tank), coolant and lubrication oil. The container has a raise lip at the 
entrance, is constructed of steel with all joints welded.    
• An oil interceptor is fitted with an automatic inflatable shut-off device that 
diverts surface waters to a storage tank associated with the interceptor in 
the event that oil or silt is detected. A high-level alarm would also sound. 
• There is fuel pipework which connects the diesel storage tanks to the day 
tanks and generators. There is also pipework from the oil delivery point 
that connects to the diesel storage tanks. All pipework is located within the 
generator compound where there is no vehicular access. All pipework is 
above ground and will be suitably supported (detail to be provided via 
IC3). All joints will be fully welded. Where there are valves and flanges drip 
trays will be used in conjunction with regular inspection. 
• The fuel level in the diesel storage tanks is monitored continuously. Safety 
devices are fitted to prevent overfilling of the tanks.  
• High level alarms are fitted to the diesel storage tanks. 
• The diesel storage tanks are fitted with a leak detection system which is 
monitored continuously and alarms which are linked to the building 
management system would sound in the event of a leak from the primary 
containment system. 
• Fuel filling points remain locked when not in use and have drip trays to 
capture any leaks. They are also fitted with visual and audible fill alarms. 
• Spill kits are provided around all refuelling areas. 
• The diesel storage tanks are subject to an annual inspection by suitably 
trained individuals. 
 
The operator will have emergency response procedures in place in the event of a 
release of oil or diesel, processes for the planning for such eventualities and 
checklists to audit the response in case such an event occurs. As the 