 
 Page 8 of 18  
The application uses generic generator noise emissions data because at the time 
of the application, the operator has not confirmed exactly which make/models of 
generator is to be installed. We have accepted the use of this generic data , 
however we have included a pre-operational condition (PO2) requiring the operator 
to submit details of the make, type and noise profile of the installed generators and 
to re -submit the noise assessment report should noise from the generators be 
significantly higher than those submitted in the application. 
 
 
Permit conditions  
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby 
operational limit’ for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits 
of the combustion activity. Therefore, emission limit values (to air) are not 
required within the permit. Emergency hours operation includes those unplanned 
hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the installation 
as a whole, meaning that as soon as one generator starts operating the hours 
count towards the 500 hours. 
 
In addition, the permit allows each individual generator unit to be tested for 
maintenance. The BAT expectation is that individual generator testing is below 
50 hours/annum. In this instance the operator proposes to limit maintaining 
testing to 22 hours a year per generator; this is in line with BAT and below the 
level at which ELVs would be needed. We expect the number of and duration of 
planned testing and generator operations to be minimised as much as possible. 
The planned testing operations of the generators shall be limited to the maximum 
testing hours described in the testing schedule outlined in the application 
documents and included by reference in the Operating Techniques Table S1.2 of 
the permit. 
 
The permit does not allow voluntary / elective power generation such as for 
demand side response (i.e. on-site use), grid short term operating reserve 
(STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) or Frequency Control by Demand 
Management (FCDM) for grid support or elective onsite use of electric power, 
when this can be supplied from the grid. This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market 
and importantly provide a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to 
air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air 
quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, phasing generators into 
subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and 
most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 