 
 Page 9 of 18  
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the actual 
reliability of the local electricity grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency 
to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged 
periods in an emergency mode is low. 
Reporting of standby generator maintenance run hours is required annually and 
any electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require 
both annual reporting and immediate notification of the Environment Agency. 
 
It is anticipated that the timescale of operation is likely to be short. They will only 
operate in this mode when the National Grid is off-line. The Operator has put 
multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure 
including dual substation connection and management systems for preventing 
data centre failure. 
 
We consider that the commissioning of new generators may pose risks to the 
environment which have not been addressed in the application documents. We 
have therefore included a pre-operational condition (PO4) requiring the 
submission of a commissioning plan, which gives details of how the potential 
impact on the environment will be managed.   
 
The permit includes requirement to carry out on-going monitoring of the 
emissions from the generators (see Monitoring section of this document). As the 
Applicant has not planned the installation of suitable monitoring ports at the 
present, on the assumption that no monitoring would be required, we have 
included an improvement condition (IC2) requiring the operator to demonstrate 
that appropriate sample locations are included in the design of the generators.   
 
 
Best Available Techniques 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the 
choice of generator, the particular configuration and plant sizing to meet the 
standby arrangement (N+1).  
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at 5% reference oxygen 
and normal conditions. The operator proposed to install generators meeting the 
2g TA-Luft standard but at the time of the application did not know the exact 
make/model of generator. We have included a pre-operational condition requiring 
the operator to submit details of the exact generator make/model they will install 
before operation and to submit a commissioning plan for each new generator. 
 
The operator has provided a stack height determination, identifying what height is 
required to provide adequate dispersion of the exhaust gas. The ADMS 5 model 
as above was used to simulate the effect of different stack heights, aiming to 
determine if there is a height above which no further benefit is gained. We 