 
 Page 6 of 18  
 The Applicant assessed that the maximum annual -mean process 
contributions are less than 1% of the relevant critical levels (for long term 
NOx and SO 2) and critical load  for acidification at all ecological receptors 
for the emergency scenario.  
 The Applicant proposed to use a short-term NOx critical level of 200 g/m3 
and provided reasonably adequate justification for this proposal based on 
the background concentrations of SO 2 and ozone in the area. The 
Applicant’s assessment showed that the maximum 24 -hours mean 
predicted environmental concentrations will not exceed the proposed short-
term critical level under any testing scenarios.  
 The Applicant assessed that, i n the emergency scenario, the predicted 
environmental concentrations of NOx  may exceed  the 24-hours average  
NOx critical level and nitrogen deposition critical load at several habitat sites 
close to the installation, including Burderop Wood  SSSI, under the 
conservative modelling assumptions, entailing  11 engines run ning at the 
same time for a period of 72 hours . However, they concluded that these 
exceedances are considered unlikely since, i n the rare event of a loss of 
utility power to the site, an outage is expected to be significantly less than 
24 hours. Furthermore, the probability of the daily NOx critical l evel PCs 
coinciding with the worst meteorological conditions is likely to be low . In 
addition, we modelled additional receptor locations to those that the 
Applicant had considered within Burderop Wood SSSI to assess the extent 
of the potential exceedance which confirmed only a small area surrounding 
ER3 and ER22 would experience an exceedance in the unlikely event of a 
loss of utility power. 
We are satisfied that the Applicant’s air dispersion modelling assessment is 
conservative and we agree with the Applicant’s conclusions regarding human 
health and ecological impacts for all testing and the emergency scenarios. Based 
on the information reviewed, we consider that the aerial emission associated with 
operations of the proposed installation will not cause exceedances of the 
applicable human health environmental standards and will not affect any site of 
nature conservation and protected species or habitats identified. 
The application used generic generator emissions data because at the time of the 
application, the operator has n ot confirmed which make/models will  be installed. 
We have accepted the use of this generic data, however we have included a pre-
operational condition (PO1) requiring the operator to submit details of the make, 
type and emissions profile of the installed generators and to re -submit the air 
quality assessment  should emissions be higher than those submitted in the 
application. Similarly we have included a pre-operational condition (PO3) requiring 
that the operator confirms that the maintenance scenarios used in the application  
remain appropriate for the make and model of the generators installed, and revises 
the air quality impact assessment should the generator manufacturer recommend 
an increase in the maintenance operation compared to that risk assessed in the 
application. 
 
 