 
Permit number                              
EPR/FP3000LY 2 
Swindon Data Centre Back-up Generation Facility  
Permit number EPR/FP3000LY 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is part of a new electronic data storage centre which includes back-up generation capacity, a 
Schedule 1 S1.1 Part A(1) (a) activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any 
fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW)). The site is located off the 
B4005 near Swindon. The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 16388 80498. The nearest residential 
receptor is 310 m to the south. 
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario if the 
National Grid power supply fails. The combustion activity comprises 10 diesel-fuelled standby generators, 
each with a thermal input of 6.8 MWth. There is also a single diesel-fuelled standby generator with a thermal 
input of 1.7 MW. The aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 69.7 MWth. Each generator has an 
exhaust, which is 15m above ground level.  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. In the event of a failure of this 
electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain power to the datacentre. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation. The datacentre will be developed in four phases as dictated by customer demand for its 
services with each phase requiring two 6.8MWth emergency generators; a further pair are held in reserve. 
The generators are sized to match the electrical requirement of the site’s eight main MV/LV transformers that 
supply the datacentre. The 1.7MWth generator is dedicated to the datacentre office accommodation.  
 
The generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule with fortnightly testing at 25% load and 
biannual testing at 100% load. This testing will be carried out sequentially to minimise air quality impact. In 
addition there will also be an annual full-building test of the generators, load-transfer, load management and 
facility monitoring systems, which involves all engines running simultaneously for 2 hours per year. The 
testing scenarios total to 22 hours operation per generator per year. 
 
The engines run on diesel fuel and the installation includes a single bunded storage tank of 40,000 litre 
capacity. In addition the generators are containerised and each includes a 16,000 litre bunded diesel day 
tank (6,000 litre for the smaller generator).  
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide. The site is covered in hardstanding, and surface water drains into a balancing 
tank prior to discharge to an external balancing pond and surface water drainage system. Potentially 
contaminated rainwater entering the exhaust stacks is discharged to sewer. 
 
  