 
 Page 7 of 18  
Noise  
The applicant has provided a detailed noise assessment using the guidance 
within our Horizontal Guidance Note H3 Part 2 – Noise Assessment & Control. 
This uses SoundPlan V8 sound-modelling software to predict the sound levels at 
down-wind receptors. In addition to the generators, the modelling includes the 
impact of Air Handling Units, LEV exhausts and heat-exchangers on the roof of 
the data centre building, but outside of the Installation. The model also includes 
topography, screening from buildings and the ground type, together with 
‘background’ noise levels obtained by baseline sound monitoring. 
The closest residential receptors to the installation have been identified and 
sound rating levels at each receptor calculated for both day-time and night-time 
events. These were then compared against the World Health Organisation 
Guideline for Community Noise (WHO CGN) criteria. 
 
The site will only run the generators regularly as part of the testing regimes 
described earlier, occurring during daytime hours. The modelling indicates that 
these will not cause an increase in overall ambient sound levels in the area. 
 
Overnight operation of the generators will only occur in an emergency situation. 
The modelling indicates that there is the potential for their noise to be sufficiently 
high that it would be noticeable above existing sources of sound in the area, in 
this scenario. However more detailed assessment indicates that with house 
windows closed, internal noise levels will be below the WHO GCN for sleep 
disturbance.  As this is a new installation it is not possible to consider the 
likelihood of overnight operation by examining the frequency of historical 
outages, but the potential for prolonged power outages in the area is considered 
to be low.   
 
The operator considers that, bearing in mind the infrequency of these events and 
that affected receptors can counter the effects simply by closing windows, the 
effects are not significant. Nevertheless, they have taken measures to minimise 
noise emissions, housing generators in acoustic enclosures to reduce acoustic 
emissions by over 33%.  
 
We have reviewed the requirement for a Noise Impact Assessment using our 
qualitative noise screening criteria. These indicate that noise is unlikely to 
become an issue because of the nature of the installation and its location. The 
limited hours of operation combined with the proposed noise mitigation measures 
are considered to be sufficient to control noise arising from the installation. The 
local council have been consulted in this matter and raised no objection. 
 
We have applied standard noise conditions within the permit which we consider 
impose sufficient control should any issues arise. 
 