 
 Page 11 of 18  
Individual day tanks are integrally-bunded (double skinned) and provided with 
leak detection sensors consisting of floating switches that rise if fuel is detected 
within the space between inner and outer tank. 
The fuel unloading area will comprise an impermeable dished portion of concrete 
area. The design has been specified to provide suitable containment of 
accidentally spilled oil from refuelling operations. The refuelling area is served by 
a full-retention interceptor connected into the site surface water drainage system.  
 
An accident management plan will be established prior to commencing operation 
of the installation. It will detail those actions required in the event of an 
emergency or accident/incident. This will include small incidents such as minor 
spills and leaks and complaints, as well as major incidents such as fire and major 
spills. In particular, a system for recording and allocating appropriate follow-up for 
accidents, incidents and non-conformances will be established prior to operation.  
 
Rainwater is kept separate from any areas in which there may be any potential 
contaminants. Surface water from exterior hardstanding areas is passed through 
an interceptor before entering the site drainage system where it joins rainwater 
from the roof areas. The surface water system discharges into an attenuation 
tank (included in the installation boundary) and attenuation pond outside of the 
installation boundary as primarily serving non-regulated activities. There is a 
penstock valve at the outlet of the attenuation tank, prior to the attenuation pond, 
that would be closed to prevent any contaminated discharge from entering the 
pond in the case of loss of containment from the secondary containment 
features.  
 
Drainage drawings are provided in the application. Details of the existing 
condition of the Site can be found in the Site Condition Report supplied with the 
application, which we have reviewed and consider satisfactory. 
  