 
 Page 10 of 18  
required the operator to provide a detailed justification of the selected stack 
height and we have accepted their justification. 
 
We required the operator to demonstrate that the number and size of the 
generators matches the requirements of the data centre. Each of the eight site 
MV/LV mains transformers is matched to a back-up generator of similar capacity, 
with two additional generators in reserve. This ensures that there is redundancy 
built into the design.  
 
In order to minimise the need for emergency operation, the data centre has two 
separate substation feeds, each capable of supporting 100% of the load. To 
address short term fluctuations, brown-outs or black-outs, the site has an 
uninterruptable power supply which can supply power until the generators 
operate. 
 
We are satisfied that the installation meets BAT relevant to the permitted 
operation.  
 
 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
There are no intentional emissions to land or groundwater from the data centre. 
The generators are located in containers over hard-standing or concrete flooring. 
Externally, the site will consist of new hard standing. Diesel, hazardous waste 
and hazardous materials storage is bunded and/or indoors, such that any source 
of potential contamination is prevented from discharge to land. 
The bulk fuel tank is fully bunded to 110% of its volume and includes a leak 
detection system. The Applicant confirmed that the fuel oil tank bund has been 
designed to meet the relevant requirements for containment structures as set out 
in CIRIA report C736 – ‘Containment systems for the prevention of pollution’, 
including the following: 
- The fuel oil tank bund will be a concrete structure that will be suitable 
for containment of fuel oil in the event of a leak/spill; 
- All joints will be sealed; 
- The bund is sized to hold in excess of 110% of the 40,000 litre storage 
tanks. Additional wall height above that required to satisfy 110%  
capacity is provided to avoid diesel jetting over the wall in the end of a 
rupture; 
- There are no penetrations in the bund wall sections required to provide 
110% containment of the fuel tank. 
- Allowance for rainwater build-up within the bund in addition to capacity 
to accommodate a loss of containment: there are 2 sump pumps which 
dewater the bund. The pumps are linked to hydrocarbon sensors which 
stop the pumps in the event that hydrocarbons are detected. On 
detection of hydrocarbons an alarm would be raised on the fuel control 
panel to alert the operator and permit action to be taken. 
 