 
 Page 5 of 18  
exercise, statistical interpretation of modelling outputs and conclusions of the 
assessment.  
The conclusions of the Applicant’s assessment are summarised in the following: 
 No exceedances of the air quality standards (AQS) or environmental 
standards (ES) for CO, SO2, particulates (PM10 and PM 2.5), NO  and 
hydrocarbons (as benzene) are predicted under any of the modelled 
scenarios; 
 No exceedances of the long-term AQS for NO 2 are predicted under any of 
the modelled scenarios; 
 The Applicant did not assess against the 24  hour ES for Benzene nor the 
short term or long term ES for nitric oxide. We checked these and predicted 
no exceedances of the ES for any scenario. 
 The 99.79th percentile NO 2 hourly air modelling predictions potentially 
exceed the concentration corresponding to the short-term AQS (i.e. 200 
g/m3) at human receptors locations in proximity of the installation, when all 
the emergency diesel generators  are operated simultaneously for testing 
purposes (full-building test) and during an emergency black-out. 
Therefore further investigation was required to look at the actual likelihood 
of these scenarios resulting in a breach of short-term NO2 AQS.  
The Applicant referred to a statistical analysis methodology to determine 
the likelihood of the worst predicted emissions from the operations of the 
standby emergency plant coinciding with the worst meteorological hours 
over the modelled operating envelope, and subsequently causing a breach 
of the short-term air quality standard for NO2 for more than 18 hours in a 
year, corresponding to the 99.79th percentile specification for the short-
term NO2 AQS. The statistical analysis was based on the hypergeometric 
probability distribution and followed the methodology set out in our web 
guidance on dispersion modelling assessment for generators. 
The results of the Applicant’s analysis show that, given the small number of 
operating hours, it is extremely unlikely (less than 1%) that any of these 
scenarios result in an exceedance of the short-term NO2 AQS for more than 
18 hours per year. 
 Our assessment considered the  magnitude of the worst case NO 2 
predictions against acute exposure risk criteria , during the simultaneous 
operation of all 11 standby generators . The US EPA Acute Exposure 
Guidelines (AEGL) were used for this part of the assessment.  The 
assessment showed that offsite exceedances of the 10-min AEGL-1 for NO2 
(corresponding to 940 g/m3) are unlikely. 
 The Applicant assessed that the maximum annual -mean process 
contributions are less than 1% of the relevant critical levels (for NOx and 
SO2) and critical loads (for nutrient nitrogen deposition and acidification) at 
all ecological receptors for all the testing scenarios.  