 
Permit number                              
EPR/FP3000LY 12 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 Air Quality Management Plan 
The Operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
 The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
 Specific timescales for response measures; 
 How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day; 
 Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power;  
 Selection of appropriate times for full-scale testing of the 
generators; 
 Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
Within 18 
months after 
the date of 
issue of this 
permit 
IC2 Monitoring of emissions 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of the 
flue gas monitoring requirements specified in Table S3.1, in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified 
generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
The plan shall include, but not limited to: 
- When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a proposal to 
install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
- Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints 
affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed deviation 
from the testing regime specified in table S3.1.  
Within 3 
months from 
the date of 
issue of this 
permit  
 
Table S1.4  Pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measure 
PO1 Specification of generators 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a report for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing the make, type and emissions profile of the generators 
proposed to be installed. The report shall describe how the generators have been selected 
to minimise their effect on local air quality, and provide a confirmation that their emissions 
are consistent with the risk envelope assessed at the application stage. Should the 
emissions to air of NOx, Particulates or Hydrocarbons from these generators be greater 
than those detailed in the application, the report shall include a revised air quality impact 
assessment.  
PO2 Confirmation of noise impacts 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a report for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing the make, type and noise profile of the generators proposed 
to be installed. Should the sound levels emitted from these generators be greater than those 
detailed in the application, the report shall include a revised noise impact assessment. 
PO3 Confirmation of testing schedule 