 
 Page 3 of 18  
an external balancing pond and surface water drainage system. Potentially 
contaminated rainwater entering the exhaust stacks is discharged to sewer. 
 
 
Operating Scenarios 
The operational scenarios that have been considered for the installation are: 
Testing Scenario 1 – each generator unit tested separately at 25% load for 0.5 
hours every two weeks per year and 1 hour each quarter, i.e. 17 hours per 
generator;  
Testing Scenario 2 - each generator unit tested separately at 100% load for 1.5 
hours, twice a year, i.e. 3 hours per generator; 
Full-building Test – all generators running simultaneously at 100% load for 2 
hours, once per year; and  
Emergency – all 11 generators operating at 100% load for 3 x 24 hours i.e. 72 
hours per generator.  
 
 
 
Air Quality  
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-
emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-environmental-permit) and the relevant parts 
of the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/specified-generators-
dispersion-modelling-assessment ) the Applicant submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-
environmental-permit. 
The Applicant’s assess ment of the impact of emissions to air is detailed in 
application document titled  ‘Proposed replacement data centre air quality 
assessment’, dated March 2021 , supplemented by the documents titled ‘Daily -
mean NOx Concentrations – Environment Agency Request’  requested at duly 
making of the Application and  ‘Response to Environment Agency Comments – 
Swindon Data Centre’ providing additional information and risk assessment on the 
additional full building testing scenario (received by the Environment Agency on 
17/12/2021) and the response to Schedule 5 Notice dated 08/12/2021 (received 
by the Environment Agency on 29/12/2021).  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen oxides (NOx) and Particulate Matter (PM10, PM2.5). 
The Applicant also included modelling for emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2), but 
we don’t consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the proposed 