 
 Page 4 of 18  
installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur diesel, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. Carbon 
monoxide and unburnt hydrocarbons emissions were also included but we 
consider that these will also be negligible for modern and well maintained 
efficient generators which allow for the complete combustion of the fuel with the 
appropriate combustion conditions in line with the equipment manufacturer’s 
specification.  
 
The applicant submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the 
potential impact of emissions of NOx, particulates (PM10 and PM2.5), SO2 and 
hydrocarbons from the generators on local air quality. The ADMS 5 software 
dispersion model was used to predict atmospheric concentrations of the identified 
pollutants; we accept that the use of this model is appropriate for these 
circumstances. 
 
The following parameters were used for input data into the model: 
 Meteorological Data from Lyneham meteorological station 2015 – 2019 
 A complex terrain map of the local area 
 Surface roughness length of 0.5m (representative of suburban areas) 
 Building wake effects from the adjacent data-hall (136m x 67m footprint, 
12.4m high) 
 Four different operating scenarios were modelled: 
o Testing scenario 1 – each generator individually tested at 25% load 
for 0.5 hours twice a year. 
o Testing scenario 2 – each generator tested at 100% load twice a 
year. 
o Full-building test – all generators operating at 100% load for up to 
two hours once per year. 
o Emergency operation – all 11 generators operating at 100% load 
for 72 hours. 
 Emissions are from 15m high stacks of 0.6m diameter 
 Pollutant emission rates of NOx, particulates and hydrocarbons for 
generators typical of those likely to be installed at the installation (TA Luft 
2g). 
 Ambient (background) air quality for NO2, particulates, hydrocarbons, SO2 
and CO obtained from DEFRA-mapped background concentration 
estimates. 
 Where relevant, background concentrations at each designated site have 
been derived from the UK Air Pollution Information System (APIS) 
database. 
The Environment Agency Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) 
has audited the air dispersion modelling report and addenda submitted with the 
permit application and carried out check modelling and sensitivity analysis. The 
audit has reviewed the selection of modelling inputs, modelling methodology and 
assumptions, selection and distribution of receptors, the outputs of the modelling 