 
 Page 13 of 18  
The site 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider to be satisfactory. 
These show the extent of the site of the facility. 
The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance 
on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the Industrial Emissions 
Directive. 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the 
screening distances we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations. The 
application is within our screening distances for these designations. 
The application is within relevant screening distance from the following statutorily 
protected conservation sites: 
- Burderop Wood SSSI (approximate distance from the site: 100m) 
- Coate Water SSSI (approximate distance from the site: 1.3km) 
- Coate Water LNR (approximate distance from the site: 1.8km) 
 
There are 17 Local Wildlife Sites and sites of Ancient Woodland within 2km, the 
closest of which is Burderop Wood at approximately 100m from the site. 
There are no European Habitats sites within 10km of the installation. 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature 
conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We have consulted Natural England on the potential impacts of the operations of 
the installation on the Burderop Wood SSSI and Coate Water SSSI. Based on 
the results of our audit of the air quality risk assessment submitted by the 
Applicant and the review of the proposed operating techniques, including the high 
reliability of the connection to the grid and limited operating hours, we consider 
that the proposed installation is not likely to damage any of the flora, fauna or 