 
Variation and consolidation  
application number  
EPR/FP3630EU/V002  2 
Romford North Data Centre 
Permit number EPR/FP3630EU 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice 
Under the Environmental Permitting (England & Wales) Regulations 201 6 (schedule 5, part 1, paragraph 19) 
a variation may comprise a consolidated permit reflecting the variations and a notice specifying the variations 
included in that consolidated permit. 
Schedule 1 of the notice specifies the conditions that have been varied and schedule 2 comprises a 
consolidated permit which reflects the variations being made. Only the variations specified in schedule 1 are 
subject to a right of appeal.  
This variation permits the operation of 8 new gas oil/ hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO) powered electricity 
generators which provide back-up power for the operation of the digital data centre. Each generator is fitted 
with selective catalytic reduction (SCR) abatement to reduce NOx emissions  and incorporate bunded belly 
tanks for gas oil storage. 
The permit has also been reviewed against the requirements of the Medium Combustion Plant Directive 
(MCPD) for 2025 (and 2030) and relevant conditions and monitoring requirements have been added. 
The main features of the permit are as follows. 
This activity comprises a series of 15 gas oil/ HVO powered electricity generators and 2 emergency diesel 
rotary uninterruptible power supply (DRUPS) engines which provide back-up power for the operation of a 
digital data centre; the provision of alternative power supplies is a requirement of high -resilience data 
centres. The total aggregated theoretical input thermal capacity of the installation is 113MWth, w hich is 
above the threshold of 50 MWth prescribed under Schedule 1, Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) Combus tion 
activities. There is also a 200kW emergency lighting gas oil generator. 
The generators are arranged in phases, which correspond with the development of the data centre itself. No 
export of power is permitted; the generators are required only for providing power in the event of a failure of 
two separate connections to the electricity grid. There are a total of 15 emergency standby generators and 2 
emergency diesel rotary uninterruptible power supply (DRUPS) engines. Two in phase III, two in phase IV, 
five in phase V and eight in phase VI. The phase VI generators will be fitted with selective catalytic reduction 
(SCR) abatement to reduce NOx emissions to 190mg/m3 (at 15% O2).  
The generators are housed within buildings.  Each generator has an emission point to air, comprising 
upward-facing exhausts mounted on top of the generator, giving an effective stack height of 1m above the 
building. 
For the Phase III, IV and V generators gas oil will be stored in a series of 8 storage tanks, with a combined 
capacity of 507,000 litres. Four of the tanks are double-skinned and located within buildings, with the 
remaining 4 comprising double-skinned units located in sealed, concrete underground chambers fitted with 
leak detection. The Phase VI generators have bunded belly tanks with a combined storage capacity of 
356,368 litres. 
There will be no emissions to surface water or the public sewer from the installation, and waste arisings are 
expected to be minor, comprising materials associated with cleaning and maintenance activities. Polishing of 
stored fuel will be undertaken in order to reduce the risk of contamination and therefore wastage. 
The data centre comprises a former warehouse and external areas are covered with hardstanding. The site 
is surrounded by residential properties to the north and east and industrial properties to the south and west. 
The River Rom runs in a northwesterly to southeasterly direction approximately 80 m to the southwest. 
The nearest SSSI is located approximately 4km to the northwest, whilst the nearest European site is Epping 
Forest, 9.5 km to the west and northwest.   