 
 Page 4 of 17 
The way in which the Applicant used dispersion models, its selection of input data, 
use of background data and the assumptions it made have been reviewed by the 
Environment Agency to establish the robustness of the Applicant’s air impact 
assessment. The ou tput from the model has then been used to inform further 
assessment of health impacts and impact on habitats and conservation sites. 
Our review of the Applicant’s assessment leads us to agree with the Applicant’s 
conclusions. 
The Applicant’s modelling predictions are summarised in the following sections. 
Air Quality Impacts (human health) 
Predicted impacts for the Testing and Maintenance 
The predicted pollutant concentrations for all Phases were below the relevant 
long-term and short-term environmental standards (ES) at all receptor locations 
and are not considered to be significant. 
 
Predicted impacts for Emergency Power Outage 
The Operator’s maximum 1-hour mean NO2 predicted environmental contribution 
(PEC) exceeds the ES at 3 receptor locations. With a maximum PEC of 145% of 
the ES. The hypergeometric distribution analysis indicates that the probability of 
exceedance is >5% at 10 receptor of the 31 relevant receptor locations. However, 
there are no predicted of exceedances of the Acute Exposure Guidelines Levels 
(AEGL-1) for NO 2 at any of the relevant sensitive receptor locations.  AEGL 1 
represents the least severe health effects which are transient and reversible upon 
cessation of exposure . The Operator has highlighted that the modelling for 
Scenario 2 is based on all but one generator from each Phase operating 
cumulatively, however in reality only the generators required to meet the electrical 
load will operate during an emergency outage. 
As the risk of the emergency power outage scenario occurring is very unlikely  (1 
in every 10 years) based on electrical grid reliability for the area and inbuilt design 
resilience we are satisfied that there is no significant risk of harm to human. 
Air Quality Impacts (Habitats) 
We identified the following European sites within the 10 km screening distance of 
the facility: 
• Epping Forest Special Area of Conservation (SAC). 
 
The following non-statutory local wildlife and conservation sites are located within 
2 Km of the installation: 
 