 
 Page 9 of 17 
6. Emission Limits 
 
Based on the operational requirements, we have not set any emission limits.  
As there are no limits, permit condition 2.3.6 ‘The activities shall not operate for 
more than 500 hours per year’ has been included to restrict the hours of 
operation. The operator will be required to record operating hours and the 
number of runs for each of the generators.  
7. Monitoring Requirements 
 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide (CO) from 
emission points EP1 to EP17, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 
hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring 
has been included in the permit in order to comply with the requirements of the 
MCPD, which specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon 
monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) from 
emission points EP1 to EP17, with the same frequency specified for the 
monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we 
have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited 
monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is 
proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from the 
installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the generators operating at 
the installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for carbon 
monoxide and NOx, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 04 June 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
8. Emissions to Sewer 
 
The existing permit did not have a point source emission to sewer listed in the 
permit. However, the variation application included details of a drainage 
connection to the surrounding industrial estates drainage network. The operator 
has stated that discharges are limited to surface water runoff. We have therefore 
included this discharge in the permit and restricted the discharge to 
uncontaminated surface water runoff. 
9. Waste 
 
The facility will not generate significant quantities of waste. Each main engine 
lubricating oil is changed at 500 run hours or 3 yearly intervals, whichever is 
shorter. Any waste oil generated during testing/maintenance will be removed 