 
 Page 6 of 17 
For SACs SPAs, Ramsar and SSSIs we consider the PC and the background 
levels in making an assessment of impact. In assessing these other sites under 
the Environment Act we look at the impact from the Installation alone in order to 
determine whether it would cause significant pollution. This is a proportionate 
approach, in line with the levels of protection offered by the conservation 
legislation to protect these other sites (which are generally more numerous than 
Natura 2000 or SSSIs) whilst ensuring that we do not restrict development.  
 
Critical levels and loads are set to protect the most vulnerable habitat types. 
Thresholds change in accordance with the levels of protection afforded by the 
legislation. Therefore, the thresholds for SAC SPA and SSSI features are more 
stringent than those for other nature conservation sites. 
 
Therefore, we would generally conclude that the Installation is not causing 
significant pollution at these other sites if the PC is less than the relevant critical 
level or critical load, provided that the Operator is using BAT to control emissions.  
 
The Operator’s assessment shows that for testing and maintenance the PCs at the 
non-statutory local wildlife and conservation sites  listed above will be below the 
relevant critical levels or loads . Our assessment and audit of the Operator’s 
modelling did not agree with this, our checks showed that during testing  and 
maintenance operations there was a risk of an exceedance of the daily mean NOx 
critical level (200µg/m3) at the River Rom at King George’s Playing Fields LWS.    
For this reason , we have included operational restrictions in the permit that will 
ensure that NOx impacts at the LWS during testing and maintenance operations 
will remain below the daily mean NOx critical level. The restrictions included in 
table S1.1 of the permit are as follows: 
• Testing of generators/DRUPS shall not be carried out for longer than 6 
hours in any 24-hour period. 
 
• No testing of any generators/DRUPS shall be carried out within the same 
24-hour period as the monthly concurrent testing of the Phase V 
generators. 
 
Also, the likelihood of a 72-hour emergency scenario is expected to be extremely 
low (Operator predicts 1 every 10 years) , we  are therefore satisfied that the 
Installation is unlikely to cause significant pollution at  any conservation site. The 
Operator is required to prevent, minimise and control emissions using BAT, this is 
considered further in Section 5. See AQMAU ‘Audit of Air Quality Assessment’ 
report for further details of our assessment. 
 