 
 Page 11 of 17 
• No testing of any generators/DRUPS shall be carried out within the same 
24-hour period as the monthly concurrent testing of the Phase V 
generators. 
 
Table S1.2 (Operating techniques) 
The testing and maintenance scenarios are detailed in this document and 
controlled though permitted operating techniques in table S1.2 of the permit.  
 
Table S1.3 (Improvement programme) 
IC1 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
Whilst we are satisfied that the maintenance and testing regime is appropriate, 
given the local issues regarding air quality, including the designation of the 
AQMA, we have included an improvement condition in the permit. This requires 
the operator to produce an updated Air Quality Management Plan.  
IC2 - Performance of SCR systems 
This condition has been included to ensure that the proposed SCR systems are 
fit for purpose and as described in the application. 
IC3 – Monitoring plan – flue gas monitoring requirements 
This condition has been included requiring the operator to submit a monitoring 
plan detailing their proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring 
requirements specified in table S3.1. 
Table S1.4 (Pre-operational condition for future development) 
PO1 – Commissioning 
The Operator has not modelled the commissioning of the proposed new engines 
in the AQ assessment. It is therefore unclear whether the impact from 
commissioning has been covered by the existing AQ assessment. For this 
reason, the Operator is required to submit a report detailing the proposed 
commissioning and demonstrating the operations are covered within the site’s 
permitted regular testing regime. If the commissioning is not covered within the 
site’s permitted regular testing regime, the operator shall submit an 
environmental risk assessment for approval by the Environment Agency, 
demonstrating that the environmental risks during the commissioning are 
minimised and remain not significant. 
Table S4.2 (Performance parameters) 
Reporting of testing and maintenance  run hours is required annually . Operation 
during an emergency scenario requires both notification  within 24 hours  and 
annual reporting. 