 
 Page 5 of 17 
Local Wildlife Sites (LWS): 
• River Rom at King George’s Playing Fields 
• River Rom in North-West Havering 
• Raphael Park 
• Rise Park Stream 
• Marks Hedge and Hainault Road Allotments  
• White’s Farm 
• Wellgate Community Farm 
• Railsides West of Romford 
• Furze House Farm 
• Bob’s Lane and Ash Lane 
• Westland’s Rough 
• Romford Golf Course 
 
We have assessed the impact from the proposed Installation on the Habitat sites 
that are within the relevant screening distance. As required under the Habitats 
Regulations we have completed a Habitats Regulation Assessment (HRA). This 
is a two-stage process.  The Stage 1 HRA is where it is identified whether 
process contribution (PC) will have a likely significant effect on the integrity of the 
habitat site.  For any habitat site where we are unable to conclude that there will 
be no likely significant effect on the integrity of the site a detailed ‘appropriate 
assessment’ of the impacts is carried out under the Stage 2 HRA to determine if 
the impacts will have an adverse effect on the habitat site.   
The Applicant’s assessment shows that for all scenarios the process 
contributions of NOx, NH3 nitrogen deposition and acid deposition at the Epping 
Forest Special Area of Conservation (SAC) when compared to the relevant 
critical levels and loads are likely to be insignificant. We have therefore 
concluded no likely significant on the integrity of the habitat site. We have 
completed a stage 1 HRA detailing our assessment and this was sent to Natural 
England for information only.  
Assessment of other conservation sites 
 
Conservation sites are protected in law by legislation. The Habitats Directive 
provides the highest level of protection for SACs and SPAs and domestic 
legislation provides a lower but important level of protection for SSSIs. Finally, 
the Environment Act provides more generalised protection for flora and fauna 
rather than for specifically named conservation designations. It is under the 
Environment Act that we assess other sites (such as local wildlife sites) which 
prevents us from permitting something that will result in significant pollution; and 
which offers levels of protection proportionate with other European and national 
legislation. However, it should not be assumed that because levels of protection 
are less stringent for these other sites that they are not of considerable 
importance. Local sites link and support EU and national nature conservation 
sites together and hence help to maintain the UK’s biodiversity resilience. 