 
 Page 3 of 17 
The Applicant has conservatively assessed the impact on air quality based on site 
load (assumed to be 75%) for 72 hours with all but one generator from each phase 
operating cumulatively. This is in line with Environment Agency guidance.   
3. Air Quality Assessment 
 
The Applicant’s assessment of the impact of air quality is set out in: 
• Air Quality Dispersion Modelling Assessment at LON1 -East. April. 2025’ – 
assessment of emergency scenario (note that this version of the AQ 
assessment has modelled ‘testing and maintenance’ scenario, however the 
‘testing and maintenance’ schedule was subsequently updated). 
• Air Quality Dispersion Modelling Assessment at LON1 -East. Oct. 2025’ – 
assessment of ‘testing and maintenance’ scenario. 
 
The assessments comprised: 
• Dispersion modelling of emissions to air from the operation of the 
installation. 
• A study of the impact of emissions on nearby sensitive conservation sites. 
 
The air dispersion modelling carried out by the applicant used the ADMS 6.0 
software which we consider an appropriate air quality modelling tool for 
regulatory purposes. The model used 5 years meteorological data (2015-2019) 
from the London City Airport meteorological station and included the potential 
effects of buildings in the modelling domain on the dispersion of the emitted 
pollutants. The assessment carried out by the Applicant also included a 
sensitivity analysis of the modelling set up and a statistical interpretation of short-
term exceedances of air quality standards. The statistical analysis was based on 
the hypergeometric probability distribution and followed the methodology set out 
in our web guidance on dispersion modelling assessment for generators. The 2 
operating scenarios detailed above were modelled. 
Each generator has its own  exhaust stack. Phase III, IV and V generators are 
14.2m high; and Phase VI generators are 13.97m high. 
Generator operating parameters and emission concentrations are based on the 
generator manufacturer’s performance and emission data.  
Each of the 8 new generators is fitted with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) 
NOx abatement. It has been estimated by the Applicant that it will take 10 minutes 
for the SCR to warm-up before becoming effective. Once the SCR is effective, it is 
proposed that the NOX emissions from the generators will be reduced by 95%. The 
use of SCR will therefore only be applicable to the annual testing scenario and the 
emergency scenario. 