 
 Page 8 of 17 
Fuel Storage 
 
Each of 8 new engines has its own dedicated above ground carbon steel fuel 
belly tank (44,546 litre capacity) which are integrally bunded and built to BS799 
Part 5 Type J 2010 specification. The tanks will have volume and leak detection 
alarms in place. Fuel tanks are vented back to the fuel filling points. Tanks are to 
be filled via local fill point cabinets installed on the front of the building. The 
cabinets will be locked when not in use. The Operator has confirmed that the fuel 
storage tanks, bunding and associated pipework for the 8 new generators are 
designed and built in accordance with the requirements in the Oil Storage 
Regulations (SI 2001/2954. The Control of Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) 
Regulations 2001). All tanks, bunding and pipework are regularly inspected for 
leaks and/or damage. 
The Applicant has stated that in the event of a fuel spillage within the generator 
rooms, the fuel will naturally fall to one side of the fully bunded and tanked pit into 
a linear gully, from which a temporary pump will be lowered into the gully and fuel 
pumped into an external tank for removal off site. 
Fuel Delivery 
 
We are satisfied that the necessary controls will be in place to minimise the risk 
of pollution. Refuelling is expected to only occur twice a year or less. Spill kits are 
situated in refuelling areas. An existing petrol interceptor is in situ as part of the 
below ground drainage system. Fuel filling points are positioned above a 
concrete slab. Temporary containment kerbs are used during refuelling. 
Refuelling is conducted by trained fuel tanker drivers and supervised by a trained 
member of the site engineering staff. The Operator has existing operating 
procedures in place and we are satisfied that they are appropriate.  
Choice of Fuel 
 
The applicant confirmed that the emergency generators will be operated on either 
gas oil or HVO. We have specified in the permit that gas oil/HVO can have a 
maximum sulphur content of 0.001% (w/w). 