 
 Page 7 of 17 
4. Noise and Vibration 
 
The Application contained a noise impact assessment (NIA) which identified local 
noise-sensitive receptors, potential sources of noise at the proposed plant and 
noise attenuation measures. Measurements were taken of the prevailing ambient 
noise levels to produce a baseline noise survey and an assessment was carr ied 
out in accordance with BS4142:2014 to compare the predicted generator plant 
rating noise levels with the established background levels.  
 
We have reviewed the Applicant’s NIA and our review concluded that the noise 
impact from the installation is likely to be low and therefore we are satisfied that 
noise impact on nearby sensitive receptors will not be significant. 
 
5. Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
Technology and Fuel 
The Applicant considered a range of technologies and fuels as part of the design 
and specification phase. The Applicant considers the latest generation of gas 
oil/HVO powered generators to be BAT for this site.  Alternatives, including diesel 
rotary uninterruptible power supply engines (DRUPS), natural gas engines, LPG 
engines, gas turbines and hydrogen fuel cells were considered but were not 
considered operationally viable for this installation.  
 
We accept that gas oil/HVO powered generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. We are satisfied that the 
applicant has provided sufficient justification to show that their proposal is BAT. 
 
Engine Specification 
 
Environment Agency guidance specifies the BAT emissions specifications for 
new gas oil fired reciprocating engines as 2g TA-Luft or US EPA Tier II (or 
equivalent standard) with NOx emission levels in the range of 2000 mg/m3 at  
5% oxygen and reference conditions. 
 
The 8 new generators proposed for this installation and included in the Air Quality 
assessment are emissions optimised and achieve the Tier II USE EPA standard. 
The maximum design load is 75% per generator and at this load unabated NOx 
emissions are 1,865mg/Nm3 (at 5% oxygen and standard temperature and 
pressure). Furthermore, so as to minimise the potential impact of NOx emissions 
at nearby sensitive receptors, the generators will be fitted with Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) emissions abatement with a minimum NOx emission reduction 
of 81%. We are satisfied that the applicant has provided sufficient justification to 
show that their proposal is BAT. 
 
 