 
 Page 16 of 17 
Annex 2 - Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public, and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Responses received from: 
1. UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) (Environmental Public Health 
Scientist) – response received 21/08/2024 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
We would ask the regulator to consider asking the applicant to provide: 
• clear plots of 1-hr NO2 and PM10 exposure at sensitive locations 
compared to appropriate statutory limits.  
• Where there is a number of “permissible breaches” to demonstrate that a) 
the breaches do not risk statutory limits being exceeded and are as low as 
possible to reduce the impact on public health, and b) the cumulative 
impact of extra off-site emissions during these events have been 
appropriately factored in.  
• The modelling methodology to factor in elevated emissions during 
generator start-up and the potential for fugitive emissions. We would also 
expect the assumed impact of abatement measures to be clearly justified.  
• The site is within an AQMA and reducing public exposures to non-
threshold pollutants (such as particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide) 
below air quality standards has potential public health benefits. We 
support approaches which minimise or mitigate public exposure to non-
threshold air pollutants and address inequalities (in exposure) and 
encourage their consideration during site design, operational 
management, and regulation. 
 
Summary of actions taken: 
For comments 1 -3: 
1. NO2 and PM10 contour plots – Because the Operator has assessed at 
relevant human health receptors and they do not predict exceedances 
during testing operations, we would not need to see contour plots for these 
pollutants in this audit. 
2. We predicted no exceedance of the environmental standards or AEGLs, 
and by adding SCR to the proposed generators, the NO2 emissions from 
the proposed generators are as low as possible to reduce the impact on 