 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 14 of 24 
We conclude that noise from the permitted activities at Didcot North Data Centre 
(EPR/GP3127LV/A001) is low risk and does not require further assessment. A 
full audit of the Noise Impact Assessment and noise modelling is not required, 
provided the site is not, and does not become, High Public Interest (HPI). If the 
site is, or becomes, HPI, the operator will need to resubmit the assessment for a 
more detailed review. 
 
Permit Conditions 
The Permit condition 2.3.3 limits emergency operation to 500 hours/ annum. 
Table S1.2 incorporates the maintenance and testing regime, which is less than 
50 hours/ generator. 
Emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not applicable to MCPs operating less 
than 500 hours per year. 
Emergency operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid 
to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring 
only within the data centre itself. The Environment Agency expects planned 
testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and 
durations (subject to client requirements). 
Each individual standby generator that is a new Medium Combustion Plant 
(MCP) is required to have stack monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) and NOx, 
refer to monitoring section below.  
Table S1.1 of the permit prevents any electricity produced at the Installation from 
being exported to the National Grid. 
Table S1.2 incorporates operational and management procedures reflecting the 
outcomes of the air quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, the 
duration and frequency of whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance 
days and most importantly times/ days to avoid adding to any high ambient 
pollutant background levels. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the reliability of 
the local electricity grid distribution allowing us to judge that the realistic likelihood 
of the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode is 
very low. 
Tables S4.2 and S4.3 require annual reporting of standby engine maintenance 
run and any electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) 
require both immediate notification to the Environment Agency and annual 
reporting. 
Table S2.1 restricts the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent substitute as 
agreed in writing with the Environment Agency. 
 