 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 18 of 24 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
pre-operational conditions. The following pre-operational conditions have been 
included in the permit: 
1 - Commissioning 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a commissioning 
plan to the Environment Agency for approval. The plan shall provide timescales 
for the commissioning of the gas oil generators and shall demonstrate that the 
commissioning of the gas oil generators is covered within the site’s permitted 
regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations and impacts. 
We have included this pre-operational condition as the risk assessment 
submitted with the application does not cover the commissioning phase. 
2 – Pre-operational measures for site condition 
This pre-operational condition is added to ensures that, before permitted 
activities commence, the operator submits sufficient baseline information to 
establish the condition of land and groundwater within the permitted installation 
boundary. Where remediation has been completed, this must include the initial 
verification report, with any later relevant monitoring or addendum reports 
submitted when available and reflected in the Site Condition Report as 
appropriate. 
Any update to the Site Condition Report will be subject to Environment Agency 
review and approval. Later information will be considered to determine whether it 
updates the baseline position or indicates a change in site condition after 
commencement of permitted activities. Information indicating deterioration after 
commencement would not normally be treated as a revision to the baseline 
condition. 
 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. 
We consider that IC2 and IC3 are appropriate because, in the prolonged 72-hour 
emergency scenario, our assessment indicates that 100th percentile 1-hour NO2 
process contributions are predicted to exceed the AEGL-1 for NO2 at a number 
of receptors. However, we agree that any such exceedance is unlikely overall 
because it would require a national emergency blackout event coinciding with 
worst-case meteorological conditions, and this scenario is considered unlikely 
provided grid reliability remains high. Therefore, these two improvement 