Permit number  
EPR/GP3127LV 
 14 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
 
Once approved in writing, the output of the monitoring exercise 
shall be used to inform / revise the AQMP and implement emission 
reduction measures, if necessary. Revisions to the AQMP and/or 
emission reduction measures shall be delivered in accordance with 
the timescales agreed in writing with the Environment Agency.  
 
 
 
As agreed in writing 
with the Environment 
Agency  
IC4 Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation 
of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in table S3.1, in 
line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and 
specified generators’ Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as 
TGN M5). The plan shall include, but not necessarily be limited to: 
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a 
proposal to install them within the shortest practical 
timeline; 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational 
constraints affecting the monitoring regime, in support of 
any proposed deviation from the testing regime specified in 
permit table S3.1.  
 
Within 3 months from 
the date of issue of the 
permit 
EPR/GP3127LV/A001 
or as otherwise agreed 
in writing with the 
Environment Agency 
 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measures 
PO1 Commissioning 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a commissioning plan to 
the Environment Agency for approval. The plan shall provide timescales for the 
commissioning of the gas oil generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning 
of the gas oil generators is covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, 
thereby minimising durations and impacts. 
 
When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted regular testing 
regime, the operator shall submit an environmental risk assessment for approval by 
the Environment Agency, demonstrating that the environmental risks during the 
commissioning are minimised and remain not significant. The commissioning of the 
engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the plan and associated 
environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency. 
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 
PO 2 Submission of Baseline Information Following Completion of Remediation 
Before commencement of any permitted activities, the operator must ensure that the 
Environment Agency has received and approved baseline condition information 
sufficient to establish the condition of land and groundwater within the permitted 
installation boundary at the start of permitted activities. 