Permit number  
EPR/GP3127LV 
 6 
1.4.2 The operator shall review and record at least every four years whether changes to those measures 
should be made and take any further appropriate measures identified by a review.  
2 Operations 
2.1 Permitted activities 
2.1.1 The operator is only authorised to carry out the activities specified in schedule 1 table S1.1 (the 
“activities”). 
2.2 The site  
2.2.1 The activities shall not extend beyond the site, being the land shown edged in green on the site plan 
at schedule 7 to this permit. 
2.3 Operating techniques 
2.3.1 The activities shall, subject to the conditions of this permit, be operated using the techniques and in 
the manner described in the documentation specified in schedule 1, table S1.2, unless otherwise 
agreed in writing by the Environment Agency. 
2.3.2 If notified by the Environment Agency that the activities are giving rise to pollution, the operator shall 
submit to the Environment Agency for approval within the period specified, a revision of any plan or 
other documentation (“plan”) specified in schedule 1, table S1.2 or otherwise required under this 
permit which identifies and minimises the risks of pollution relevant to that plan , and shall implement 
the approved revised plan in place of the original from the date of approval, unless otherwise agreed  
in writing by the Environment Agency. 
2.3.3 For the following activities referenced in schedule 1, table S1.1: AR1. The activities shall not operate 
for more than 500 hours in emergency use per annum.  
2.3.4 For the following activities referenced in schedule 1, table S1.1: AR1.  
(a) the operator must keep periods of start-up and shut down of the combustion plant as short as 
possible.  
(b) there shall be no persistent emission of ‘dark smoke’ as defined in section 3(1) of the Clean Air 
Act 1993. 
2.3.5 Any raw materials or fuels listed in schedule 2, table S2.1 shall conform to the specifications set out 
in that table. 
2.3.6 The operator shall ensure that where waste produced by the activities is sent to a relevant waste 
operation, that operation is provided with the following information, prior to the receipt of the waste:  
(a) the nature of the process producing the waste; 
(b) the composition of the waste; 
(c) the handling requirements of the waste; 
(d) the hazardous property associated with the waste, if applicable; and 
(e) the waste code of the waste. 
2.3.7 The operator shall ensure that where waste produced by the activities is sent to a landfill site, it 
meets the waste acceptance criteria for that landfill. 
2.4 Improvement programme 