 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 10 of 24 
exceedances cannot be ruled out if prolonged emergency operation occurs at the 
same time as worst-case meteorological conditions. This conclusion is based on 
emergency operation remaining rare and grid reliability remaining high. 
 
Habitats Assessment 
For the testing scenarios, the 100th percentile daily mean NOx PCs are 
insignificant, assuming testing could occur for up to 24 hours. For the emergency 
scenario, the 100th percentile daily mean NOx PCs are predicted to exceed the 
higher critical level if a prolonged emergency coincides with worst-case 
meteorological conditions. However, for the reasons set out above, this 
exceedance is considered unlikely.  
Annual NO2, SO2, nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition PCs, based on the 
cumulative operational hours from all testing scenarios plus 72 hours of 
emergency operation, are either insignificant or PECs do not exceed the relevant 
critical levels and critical loads. 
We therefore agree with the applicant’s overall conclusion that significant effects 
on protected conservation designations are unlikely from routine testing and 
normal operation. We also conclude that, while a short-term daily mean NOx 
exceedance cannot be ruled out during a prolonged emergency outage, this 
impact is unlikely to occur in practice provided emergency operation remains rare 
and grid reliability remains high. 
 
Protection Against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation 
The site’s power distribution system has been designed to be safe, reliable, 
redundant, and robust. The primary electrical supply comes from the grid, with 
two fully independent supply circuits. Each circuit can support the entire site load 
if required, providing resilience during an outage on one source. 
The on-site infrastructure is designed on N+110 reliability standards and 
concurrently maintainable design, meaning any single component can be taken 
out of service without affecting operational capability. The likelihood of needing to 
run the back up generators is therefore low. 
 
Operational hours 
In order to minimise generator operation, we set operational hour limits for data 
centres at 500 hours as they are permitted for emergency use only. The limit on 
the emergency use of 500 hours is for the Installation as a whole i.e. as soon as 
one generator starts operating the hours count towards the 500 hours.  