 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 5 of 24 
If firewater is used, the drainage system has been designed to contain potentially 
contaminated run off. In such circumstances, penstock valves will be closed so 
firewater is held within the system until it can be removed and the drains flushed. 
Small spills will be managed by the interceptors, while larger incidents will rely on 
the containment provided by the drainage system. The operator confirmed 
containment of firewater and spillages will comply with CIRIA Guide C736 
Containment systems for the prevention of pollution. 
 Interceptors 
The operator confirms a full oil retention interceptor (class 1) with automated 
closure devices local to point source of pollution risks (fuel storage or delivery 
areas) will be provided. The oil interceptors are included within the surface water 
drainage system for each generator compound, and these will be regularly 
emptied and maintained. 
Hydrocarbon detectors are installed within interceptors located in areas of 
concrete hardstanding. These detectors identify changes in water composition 
(e.g., conductivity) and generate a critical alarm. The system automatically closes 
the drainage outlet upstream of the attenuation pond, ensuring any fuel is 
retained in the interceptor. Specialist contractors will be engaged to remove 
contaminated water and reinstate the interceptor following an alarm event. 
 
Air Quality 
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) and the relevant parts of 
the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (Specified generators: dispersion modelling 
assessment - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) the operator submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 
Applicant’s Assessment of Potential Impact on Air Quality 
The applicant submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment prepared by Hoare 
Lea (the consultant), which considered the potential impacts of the principal 
pollutants of concern with respect to emissions to air from low sulphur gas oil/ 
HVO generators. The consultant has assessed the potential long-term and short-
term impacts of nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM), volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs) assessed as benzene, carbon monoxide (CO), and sulphur 