 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 13 of 24 
Comprehensive management systems will be used to control all activities with 
potential environmental impact. Planned maintenance will follow manufacturer 
recommendations and be supported by operational experience. Inspections will 
range from daily checks to scheduled specialist assessments. The operator also 
replaces equipment at the end of warranty to maintain reliability. 
A Building Management System and an Electrical Power Monitoring System 
provide real time monitoring and alert staff to any operational issues. Bunds and 
surfaces will be inspected regularly, and bund water will be checked and emptied 
when necessary. 
 
Site Security  
A staffed security gate controls all entry to the site around the clock. The outer 
perimeter has high security fencing with razor wire. An inner fence provides a 
second secure boundary. The substation, cooling plant and generator 
compounds each have their own fenced and locked enclosure. 
 
Noise 
Noise is not considered a significant aspect of data centre permitting. The 
permitted activities comprise the standby generators and associated gas oil or 
equivalent fuel supply systems, rather than the operation of the data centre itself. 
The generators will operate routinely only as part of the testing regimes 
described earlier, which will take place during daytime hours. Overnight operation 
will occur only in emergency situations. As this is a new Installation, the likelihood 
of overnight operation cannot be assessed using historical outage data; however, 
the potential for prolonged power outages in the area is considered to be low. 
The operator has submitted a Noise Impact Assessment for the operation of the 
generators at the data centre. 
 
Environment Agency review of operator’s assessment of potential noise 
impacts 
Although the applicant did submit a noise impact assessment (NIA), our 
screening suggests a NIA will only be required if there were night-time 
operations. Night-time operation would occur only in emergency situations, such 
as a full power failure. Emergency situations are not considered part of normal 
site operations and are not expected to occur regularly.  
The Noise Impact Assessment submitted by the applicant indicates that sound 
from generator testing would be below the typical background sound level, 
consistent with a low impact under BS 4142. 