 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 9 of 24 
• Testing scenarios: Daily mean NOx process contributions are concluded 
to be insignificant at the designated sites. 
• Emergency scenario: Daily mean NOx process contributions could exceed 
the critical level only if a prolonged emergency outage coincides with 
worst-case meteorology; the consultant concludes this is highly unlikely 
due to expected high grid reliability and dual sub-station supply. 
• Annual impacts (all scenarios combined): Annual NOx, SO2, nutrient 
nitrogen and acid deposition process contributions are concluded to be 
insignificant or that PECs do not exceed relevant critical levels/loads. 
 
 
Environment Agency review of operator assessment of potential impact on 
air quality 
 
Human health assessment 
For the testing scenarios, no exceedances of the short-term NO2 environmental 
standard (ES) are predicted. For the emergency scenario, our modelling 
indicates that exceedances may occur under worst-case meteorological 
conditions coinciding with emergency operation. In particular, the 99.79th 
percentile 1-hour NO2 process contributions (PCs) are predicted to exceed the 
ES, with a greater than 5% likelihood of exceedance if 72 hours of emergency 
operation occurs.  
At the 100th percentile, 1-hour NO2 PCs are predicted to exceed the AEGL-1 for 
NO2, 1-hour NO PCs are predicted to exceed the ES where 90% of NOx is 
assumed to be NO, and 24-hour benzene PCs are predicted to exceed the ES 
where all VOCs are assumed to be benzene, although this is considered unlikely.  
These exceedances are only predicted for a 72-hour outage under worst-case 
meteorological conditions and are therefore considered unlikely because such 
emergency operation is expected to be rare, provided grid reliability remains 
high. Annual PCs, based on the cumulative operational hours from all testing 
scenarios plus 72 hours of emergency operation, are either insignificant or the 
predicted environmental concentrations (PECs) do not exceed the relevant ES. 
We therefore agree with the applicant’s overall conclusion that significant impacts 
on human health are unlikely during normal testing and routine operation. We 
also agree that the emergency scenario represents a highly unlikely operating 
condition because it assumes a 72-hour national emergency blackout event 
coinciding with worst-case meteorological conditions. On that basis, we conclude 
that significant impacts on human health are unlikely, although short-term 