 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 23 of 24 
Response received from: Food Standards Agency 
Brief summary of issues raised: No response received. 
 
Response received from: Local Authority – Planning 
Brief summary of issues raised: No response received. 
 
Response received from: Director of Public Health & UK Health Security Agency 
(UKHSA)  
Brief summary of issues raised:  
• The applicant should produce an air quality management plan prior to the 
facility coming into operation. The Environment Agency should satisfy 
itself that the proposed measures within the air quality management plan 
are appropriate to minimise emissions off-site. Measures may include air 
monitoring to underpin the predicted modelling results.  
• The applicant should produce an accident management plan prior to 
operations commencing on the proposed site. The Environment Agency 
should satisfy itself that the proposed measures within the Accident 
Management Plan are suitable and minimise the risk of impacts beyond 
the boundary of the site.  
• We would also suggest that operators should be encouraged to prevent 
overlapping plant testing and maintenance scheduling. 
 
Summary of actions taken:  
With regard to concerns about air quality management, the operator confirmed 
the generators are emissions-optimised to 2gTA-Luft standard which is 
considered best available techniques for standby generators for data centres. 
In addition to this, we have specified that the Operator shall have a written Air 
Quality Management Plan (AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency 
running of the plant and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 
hours, as far as possible. This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the 
receptors. The Operator is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop 
this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered. 
With regards to concerns about Accident Management, we have reviewed the 
operator’s environmental risk assessment incorporating the fugitive emission risk 
assessment and management plan, and accidents risk assessment and 
management plan providing measures in place to respond to accidents that may 