 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 4 of 24 
Further supporting information was provided for the two backup generators 
proposed for the CIWB and the single backup generator at the onsite substation. 
These are also identified as BAT. The emissions data for these generators show 
a NOx concentration of 3489.7 mg/Nm³ at 5% O₂ when operating at 100% load. 
While this value appears high relative to typical standby generator emission 
levels, we agree it is acceptable within the context of the proposed installation 
and operational regime. 
We do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
Installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent fuel resulting in negligible emissions of 
sulphur. HVO has the same sulphur content restrictions set in the permit as gas 
oil. 
Aqueous Releases from Site 
The operator confirmed that there are no point source emissions to land or 
groundwater, and no process water will be discharged to sewer or surface 
waters. Surface water from locations W1 and W2 will pass through an attenuation 
pond and oil separator before discharging to Moor Ditch. 
Point Source Emissions to Surface Water  
The operator confirmed that no contaminated water will enter the surface water. 
Only uncontaminated surface water run off from generator areas, roofs, 
hardstanding, fuel storage and handling areas, and paved areas will enter the 
surface water drainage network. This water will be routed through the system and 
into the attenuation ponds before it is released to Moor Ditch via W1 and W2. 
Each generator compound includes an oil interceptor to remove oil and grease. 
Run off from deliveries will also pass through this interceptor. Rainwater collected 
within bunds will be checked before being released into the drainage system. 
Penstock valves will be installed at the inlets to the attenuation ponds and can be 
manually closed if an incident occurs that could affect surface water quality. 
Firewater 
The applicant confirmed emergency preparedness and response plans will be 
developed for when the site becomes operational. The applicant confirmed that 
an Accident Management Plan will also be established before operations begin, 
covering responses to both minor and major incidents.  
Generators will be equipped with weighted shut off valves triggered by fusible 
links, which automatically close the fuel supply in the event of a fire. These 
systems will alert the site security office so that staff can respond and contact 
emergency services where required. 