 
LIT 11984  [Publish date]                     Page 3 of 24 
The Operator carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies and fuel 
capable of providing emergency power at the data centre. 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that gas oil or equivalent fuel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators. Currently gas oil or equivalent fuel generators 
are the preferred option for the supply of standby power for data centres and are 
a proven technology for providing reliable resilience of functionality which can be 
started from cold very quickly.  
We have specified the fuel to be burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a 
sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing our 
position on the use of gas oil substitute fuels, therefore we have required that if 
any of these fuels are proposed, written agreement is sought by the operator 
from the Environment Agency’s regulatory officer. The Operator confirmed that 
the units can run on both gas oil and HVO. This fuel usage was agreed by us on 
15/01/2026. 
Managing Emissions 
Point Source Emissions to Air 
Emissions to air from the Installation will principally comprise combustion gases 
arising from the operation of the generation plant under emergency, testing and 
maintenance scenarios.  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10) and sulphur dioxide (SO2).  
The Operator has taken measures to minimise emissions from the gas oil or 
equivalent fuelled generators under emergency, testing and maintenance 
scenarios.  
Both the Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach v21 and Emergency backup 
diesel engines on installations: best available techniques (BAT) - GOV.UK 
(www.gov.uk) specifies the BAT emissions specification for new gas oil fired 
reciprocating engines as emissions optimised to 2g-TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or 
an equivalent. These are the international standards that we have concluded that 
we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   
The Operator has confirmed that out of the 129 generators to be used at the data 
centre, the main backup generators to be used are emissions optimised to meet 
the 2gTA-Luft standard. In addition to the main backup generators, each data 
centre building will contain a smaller “house” generator. Based on the data sheet 
provided, these generators are considered to be compliant with US EPA Tier 2 
standards. 