 
    Page 4 of 15 
Monitoring requirements  
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission 
points A1 to A44, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 hours of 
operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been 
included in the permit in order to comply with the requirements of Medium 
Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD), which specifies the minimum requirements 
for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced 
operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from 
emission points A1 to A44, with the same frequency specified for the monitoring 
of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied 
our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in 
concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk 
associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 2nd June 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set an improvement condition (IC02) requesting the operator to submit 
a monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the 
operator’s proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring 
requirements specified in the permit.  
For new MCP, we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 
4 months of the issue date of the permit or the date when each new medium 
combustion plant is first put into operation, whichever is later (permit condition 
3.5.2) unless otherwise agreed under Improvement Condition 4.  
We have also specified continuous process monitoring of levels of nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) from emission points A1 to A44 because these generators are fitted 
with SCR, hence we consider this monitoring necessary to ensure the effective 
operations of the abatement system, to prevent excessive ammonia slip and to 
dose the right amount of urea solution. Because this monitoring is not specified to 
assess compliance with emission limits, we are satisfied that it will not require 
certification to MCERTS standards. 