Permit number  
Error! Unknown document property name. 
 2 
Permit number EPR/GP3721SQ 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit. 
The main features of the permit are as follows. 
The permit is for operation of Emergency standby generators (ESGs) at Colt Hayes data centre. The 
scheduled activity is Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a). 
The ESGs will operate on Gas oil or Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil (HVO) and will be fitted with Selective 
Catalytic Reduction (SCR) to reduce NOx emissions. The facility will house a total of 44 ESGs, including 17 
Rolls Royce MTU DS3100 generators and 27 Rolls Royce MTU DS3600 generators, with a combined 
thermal input of approximately 283 MWth. 
The ESGs are designed for limited hours of operation, primarily for maintenance, testing, and emergencies. 
Building 1 includes one life safety (emergency lighting etc) generator below 1MWth (160kW), which is not 
fitted with SCR. Building 2 is expected to house a life safety generator of a similar size.  
Under normal circumstances, electricity to the site will be provided by the National Grid. However, in the 
unlikely event of an outage the ESGs are designed to operate until the grid supply is restored. 
The facility is located at national grid reference TQ 11533 80192, and it is situated within the Brook Industrial 
Estate in Hayes, London. The site is designed to comply with the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016 and other relevant legislation, ensuring that it meets all necessary environmental 
standards. 
During construction the site will have 6 bulk tanks each with a capacity of 70,000 litres  but as construction 
proceeds this will change to the storage set out below. 
The fuel storage is split between bulk tanks and day tanks, and a dump tanks. Each of the two buildings 
have their own fuel storage. The building 1 fuel storage is delivered to 10 bulk tanks each having 70,000 litre 
capacity, these supply 22-day tanks each holding 2,000 litre this provides at full load (100%) for 2 hours, this 
is repeated in Building 2. Each building has a fuel dump tank holding 3,000 litres.  
All of the fuel tanks are double skinned but also have secondary containment which adheres to the 110% 
volume required by the Oil Storage Regulations 2023. The site containment is also fitted with leak detection.  
The site has Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) units fitted to each of the generators, t o minimise impacts 
from oxides of nitrogen because the site is located within the air quality management area. 
The operator will have a management system certified to ISO 14001. 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 