 
    Page 3 of 15 
The generators at this installation are emissions optimised and achieve the Tier II 
US EPA standard we are satisfied this is BAT.  SCR abatement will also be used 
to minimise emissions well below the BAT standard. 
Choice of Fuel 
We have specified the fuel to burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a 
sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing our 
position on the use gas oil substitute fuels such as hydrotreated vegetable oil 
(HVO), therefore we have required that if any of these fuels are proposed, written 
agreement is sought by the operator from the Environment Agency’s regulatory 
officer. 
Liquid fuel storage 
Fuel will be stored in above ground bulk and day tanks. The tanks will be bunded 
to 110% of capacity and fitted with leak detection and a minimum of 4 level sensors 
to indicate fuel levels and prevent overfilling. Surrounding area covered in good 
quality hardstanding. Dedicated drainage interceptors to be installed acting as a 
tertiary containment to prevent spill fuel entering surface waters.  
All fuel pipework will be pipe -in-pipe, with vacuum leak detection provided. No 
pipework fittings shall be located outside of bunded areas. 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) 
All generators will be fitted with SCR to minimise emissions of oxides of nitrogen. 
Emissions to air  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) resulting from the combustion process on site. 
We don’t consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. 
The applicant’s testing and maintenance schedule shows that each generator will 
be tested for up to 20 hours per year. Our view is that is BAT as it is less than 50 
hours.  
Emission limits 
As the plant is limited to less than 500 hours of emergency operation by permit 
condition 2.3.3 and less than 50 hours for maintenance and testing in permit 
table S1.2, air emission limits have not been set. 
 