 
    Page 10 of 15 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
pre-operational conditions. 
The applicant must provide a written report to the Environment Agency local 
office before the plant goes into full operation. 
Table S1.4 pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measure 
PO1 Commissioning 
At least one month before operation (or other date as agreed with the Environment 
Agency) the operator shall submit a commissioning plan to the Environment Agency for 
approval.  The plan shall provide timescales for the commissioning of the diesel 
generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the diesel generators is 
covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations 
and impacts. 
 
When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted regular testing 
regime, the operator shall submit an environmental risk assessment for approval by the 
Environment Agency, demonstrating that the environmental risks during the 
commissioning are minimised and remain not significant. The commissioning of the 
engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the plan and associated 
environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency. 
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 
 
 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. 
We have included an improvement programme to ensure that the level of 
compliance is as high as possible. All of the improvement conditions are in line 
with the usual data centre MCP generators using SCR. 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC01 Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
The operator shall produce an AQMP in conjunction with the 
Local Authority outlining response measures to be taken in the 
event of a grid failure. This must include, but not be limited to, 
the following considerations:  
Within 6 months 
from the date of 
issue of the permit 
EPR/GP3721SQ 