 
    Page 11 of 15 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion 
modelling at individual receptors.  
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to 
limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 
hours as far as possible. 
• Specific timescales for response measures. 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might 
influence the response required, for example 
meteorological conditions or time of day. 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in 
the event scenario i.e. loss of power.  
• Timescales for continued review of the management 
plan; and 
• Addition of indicative air quality monitoring stations 
around the site to inform on air quality during extended 
periods of standby generator running including 
prolonged grid outages.  
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to 
the Environment Agency for approval. 
 
IC02 Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements  
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the 
implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements 
specified in table S3.1, in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack 
emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 
04 June 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). The plan shall 
include, but not necessarily be limited to:  
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling 
ports, a proposal to    install them within the shortest 
practical timeline.  
 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational 
constraints affecting the monitoring regime, in 
support of any proposed deviation from the testing 
regime specified in permit table S3.1.   
 
Within 3 months 
from the date of 
issue of the permit. 
EPR/GP3721SQ 
IC03 Performance of SCR systems 
The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment 
Agency for assessment and written approval. The report must 
contain: 
  
• Detailed information on the specification of the 
suitability of the NOx sensors and urea solution dosing 
to the SCR systems 
Within 3 months 
from the date of 
issue of the permit 
EPR/GP3721SQ or 
as agreed in writing 
with the 
Environment Agency  
 