EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  3 
Maintenance testing - air quality 
The Operator has modelled specific operational scenarios including “On Load” which is routine quarterly 
testing of the site engines where each data hall is tested with generators at 46% load for a maximum of 30 
minutes quarterly. They also modelled “Load Bank” which is an annual test that involves each of the 40 
generators operating one at a time at 46% load for 1-1.5 hours. They modelled this scenario per generator. 
Human receptors 
For the ‘On Load’ and ‘Load Bank’ scenarios (i.e. testing scenarios), all long-term (LT) PCs are insignificant1 
compared to Environmental Standard (ES) at human receptors. 
All short-term (ST) PCs are either less than the 10% insignificance threshold of any ES or Predicted 
Environmental Standard (PEC) are below 100% of any ES at human receptors 
Ecological receptors 
The Operator’s predictions conclude insignificant emissions at ecological receptors for all ES except for daily 
NOx critical level for the ‘On Load’ and Emergency scenarios. For the ‘On Load’ scenario they predict an 
exceedance of the daily NO x critical level at Croxley Common Moor Site  of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) 
and Local Nature Reserve (LNR). 
We have audited the Operator’s air dispersion modelling and, based on the following, we are a satisfied that 
the proposals are unlikely to result in a significant impact on the environment. 
1) The short term NO 2 process contributions and resulting predicted environmental concentrations have the 
potential to exceed the environment standard.  Howe ver, the probability of maximum short term process 
contributions coinciding with unfavourable meteorological conditions are low. If emergency operations last for 
less than 24 hours, exceedance of the environment standard is likely to be low (below 5%). 
Improvement condition (IC2) specified in the permit will require the operator to produce a report outlining the 
details of the annual maintenance operating regime after the first year of operation following permit issue to 
validate the information provided with the permit application and that the scenario modelled was worst case. 
2) As described above, generators are scheduled for quarterly ‘On Load’ testing over a year consists of 2 
hours of operation by each generator in data halls 1,2,3,4,6 and 10 and 1 hour of operation of the generators 
in data hall 7 and 8. Halls 1 – 6 and 10 have 24 engines which results in 48 hours operation per year. Halls 7 
and 8 have 16 engines which results in 16 hours operation per year. On load testing therefore only occurs for 
approximately 64 hours annually. The site will be restricted to these maintenance related operating times in 
the permit. 
3) Nitrogen and acid deposition screen out as insignificant. It is only the nitrogen aerial emissions which do 
not screen out. The sensitive features of the site are sensitive to activities including the application of 
manure, fertilisers and lime, the dumping, spreading or discharge of any materials. The Natural England 
citation and Operations Requiring Consent does not list aerial emissions.  
4) The metrological data within the application shows that the protected site is not located downwind of the 
installation in relation to the prominent wind direction from south west to north east. 
5) Reviewing source attribution for this site using the Air Pollution Information System, it states that in this 
area industrial emissions only contribute a small amount in comparison to other sources such as traffic. 
 
Emergency scenario – air quality 
During the emergency operating scenario the air quality modelling does indicate a risk of exceedances for 
environment standards for short term NO2. The site hasn’t however operated in this mode of operation in the 
past 5 years and if it were to operate in this mode, the timescale is likely to be short. They will only operate in 
this mode when the National Grid is off-line. The Operator will put multiple measures in place to minimise the 
risk of National Grid supply failure including a single serving substation, dual grid connects and management 
systems for preventing data centre failure. 
                                                     
 