Permit number 
EPR/HP3136DK 2 
Digital Realty Watford  
Permit number EPR/HP3136DK 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes a Schedule 1 Part A(1) 1.1 activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 or more megawatts (MW). The site is located on Watford Business Park. The National Grid Reference for 
the site is TQ 508927 194960. The site is approximately 2.25 hectares in size. The surrounding area is a mix 
of industrial, commercial and residential uses. 
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The 
emergency combustion activity comprises 40 diesel fuelled standby generators. 3 of the generators have a 
thermal input of 4MWth, 3 generators of 3.6 MWth, 3 generators of 3.4 MWth and 31 generators of 3.2 
MWth. The aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 132MWth. Each generator has an exhaust, 
approximately between 4.4 and 5.5m above ground level.  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all 
the generators will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load at the site. All the generators are 
subject to a maintenance testing schedule.  
 
The engines run on diesel fuel which is stored in individual double skinned tanks below the generators. The 
tanks vary in size from 23,750 litres up to 38,000 litres. Each set of generators are housed within bunded 
containers. The site is covered in hardstanding and surface water gullies drain into an oil interceptor prior to 
discharge from site. The fuel tanks are fitted with leakage alarms. There is no sewer connection related to 
the process. Surface water runoff passes via an oil interceptor to a surface water sewer for the industrial 
estate. 
The main emissions from the installations are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxides, 
particulate matter and carbon monoxide. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 