Permit number 
EPR/HP3136DK 13 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements
Reference Requirement Date 
IC3 The Operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency verifying 
the predicted short-term nitrogen dioxide concentrations at the boundary 
of the site. The report shall include but is not limited to: 
 Monitoring of ambient air quality at  the boundary of the site during 
the ‘pull the plug’ operating scenario using monitoring methods 
agreed in advance with the Environment Agency; 
 A comparison of modelled against monitored concentrations of 
nitrogen dioxide; 
 A demonstration that appropriate monitoring location(s) were 
selected at the boundary of the site, taking into account the 
modelled predictions and the weather conditions prevalent at the 
time of the monitoring; and 
 Details of the MCERTS qualifications held by the monitoring 
team.  
The output of the verification exercise should be used to revise the air 
quality management plan if necessary. 
12/04/2020 
IC4 The Operator shall submit a review of options for reducing predicted short 
term nitrogen dioxide emissions impacts for the grid failure emergency 
scenario. This shall include but is not limited to:  
 Monitoring of engine emissions to validate the impact assessment 
submitted with the application; 
 A feasibility study including cost benefit analysis for potential 
upgrades or other changes to infrastructure or operational 
regimes on site that could increase dispersion; 
 Use of the above information to propose appropriate changes in 
stack height or other potential options for decreasing emissions or 
increasing dispersion to ensure emergency scenario emission 
levels do not exceed acceptable maximum levels specified in 
relevant guidance at sensitive receptors; and 
 Proposal of an appropriate timescale for improvements.  
The review and timescale for improvement shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency in writing for approval. 
12/10/2020 
IC5 The Operator shall undertake a noise assessment during normal 
operations in accordance with the procedures given in BS4142: 2014 
(Rating industrial noise affecting mixed residential and industrial areas) in 
order to verify the assessment provided within the application. The 
assessment shall include, but not be limited to:  
 
 A review of the noise sources from the facility. Where any noise 
sources are identified as exhibiting tonal contributions, they shall be 
quantified by means of frequency analysis; and 
 
 A review of noise mitigation measures. 
A report shall be provided to the Environment Agency detailing the 
findings of the assessment and a review of whether any improvements 
are required together with proposals and timescales for their 
implementation. 
12/10/2019 
IC6 The Operator shall carry out a review  of the site’s tertiary containment 
system which serves the oil and diesel storage tanks  
The review shall compare the system’s design, method of construction 
and integrity against the standards outlined in CIRIA guidance C736 – 
12/01/2018 