EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  8 
Aspect considered Decision 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, showing 
the extent of the site of the facility. The plan is included in the permit. 
 
Site condition report 
 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. Based on the site condition report, we consider that 
appropriate pollution prevention measures are in place and that the pollution 
of land and water is unlikely. The decision was taken in accordance with our 
guidance on site condition reports. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
See key issues section for additional information. 
We have consulted Natural England who confirmed they are satisfied that, 
subject to the imposition of the conditions by the Environment Agency and the 
operations being undertaken in strict accordance with the submitted 
proposals and the conditions set out by the Environment Agency, these 
proposals will avoid adverse effects upon the interest features for which the 
SSSI is notified.  
 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory, however we have included 
improvement conditions to ensure additional considerations of risk relating to 
emissions to air are considered on an ongoing basis. 
See key issues section above. 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Permit conditions 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. 
See key issue for details. 
Emission limits We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Reporting 
 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is 
being operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to 
ensure that we are notified immediately in the instance that the site is ever 
operated in emergency scenario mode. 