EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  6 
 
Based on the operator’s proposal as summarised above, we are satisfied that the site’s secondary 
containment is adequate to manage the risk posed. However we are not satisfied that the tertiary system 
meets the requirements of the industry standards. We have therefore included improvement condition IC6 in 
the permit which requires the operator to carry out a review of the site’s tertiary containment system in line 
with relevant industry standards. The operator will then be required to implement the recommendations of 
the review in order to bring the tertiary containment in line with relevant industry standard. This is to ensure, 
in the event the secondary containment which serves the oil and diesel storage tanks or the sites distribution 
pipe work fails, that there is another element of cont ainment. This will hold liquid spills to prevent pollution 
and allow time to deploy addition spill measures if an incident escalates. 
Systematic appraisal for managing, recording, reviewing and 
remediating pollution incidents 
The conditions of the permit include the requirement to carry out periodic monitoring of groundwater at 
least once every five years and soil at least once every ten years.  As this is an established site there is the 
potential for the installation of boreholes to act as pathways for contaminant migration and installing them 
within the concreted area containing the generators could compromise the protection offered. Due to the 
potential risk of compromising containment onsite though the installation of monitoring infrastructure, the 
Operator has undertaken a systematic appraisal of the risk of contamination
 
which they will review 
throughout the life of the permit using the mana gement systems they have onsite. The Operator has 
demonstrated that there are sufficient controls in place at the site to ensure that pollution is effectively 
contained, the risk managed and pollution incidents pr evented. Any incidents will be accurately recorded, 
improvements acted upon and if needed, followed up of suitable remediation methods. 
Digital Realty Watford have a certified ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) which 
includes a diesel emergency response plan as part of the emergency response plan and incident reporting 
requirements for the site. They have outlined the potential sources of pollution on site and outlined the 
infrastructure at the site designed to contain spills reducing any risk to underlying soils and groundwater.  
Any major spillage incident has to be recorded under the incident reporting process. In addition, any major 
diesel or chemical spill event woul d follow the emergency response plan. Incidents will be reviewed post 
event. As part of the annual EMS audit on site, any corrective actions from incidents are reviewed and 
closed out. The site will collect evidence of any pollution incidents from the incident reporting process. If 
there are no pollution incidents recorded on site, this is an indication of no risk to the land or underlying 
groundwater. 
The systematic appraisal will come in the form of ongoing monitoring of any pollution incidents on site 
through the incident process, record-keeping and the annual EMS audit on site. Continued good site 
operational management and maintenance will also form part of the appraisal process. If the maintenance of 
the oil interceptor, readiness of the spill kits and appropriate chemical storage are all adhered to, then there 
will be a low risk of potential contamination. The incident monitoring and internal audits of the EMS on site 
will pick up any potential risk to the groundwater. If there is a significant pollution incident which triggers the 
use of the diesel or other emergency response plans, then the incident will be risk assessed to see if there is 
a potential impact to the surrounding environment, which may result in on-site testing if required. 
We have reviewed the Operator’s proposals and we are satisfied that their proposals for systematic 
appraisal will ensure an appropriate system in place to manage, record, review and remediate pollution 
incidents throughout the lifetime of the permit. 
 
 