EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  10 
Consultation 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on GOV.UK for 
the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section 
Response received from 
Public Health England 
Brief summary of issues raised 
 Environmental Permit issued for this site should  contain conditions to ensure that the following 
potential emissions do not impact upon public health: products of combustion (e.g. nitrogen dioxide, 
particulate matter and sulphur dioxide) from the backup diesel generators used on site as a result of 
grid power failures or routine testing.  
 We note that the modelling indicates that there could be exceedances of the short term nitrogen 
dioxide air quality standards in the 120 hour shutdown scenario. Although such a scenario is 
considered unlikely, the EA may wish to assess whether measures to limit nitrogen dioxide 
emissions from the generators have been fully considered by the applicant to limit any potential 
impacts on local air quality.  
 In addition, the applicant has provided limited deta ils on any fire prevention/management plan and 
how accidents associated with the site combustion activities and fuel storage would be handled.  
In relation to potential risk to public health, we recommend that the Environment Agency also consult the 
following relevant organisation(s) in relation to their areas of expertise:  
o the local authority for matters relating to impact upon human health of contaminated land, noise, 
odour, dust and other nuisance emissions;  
o the Food Standards Agency, where there is the potential for deposition on land used for the growing 
of food crops or animal rearing;  
o the Director of Public Health for matters relating to wider public health impacts.  
Any additional information obtained by the Environment Agency in relation to these comments should be 
sent to PHE for consideration. Such information could affect the comments made in this response. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
The Operator provided an air dispersion modelling report to demonstrate the potential air quality risks 
associated with the maintenance and operation of standby generators. We have audited their air quality 
modelling and agree with the conclusions. The modelling identified the potential for exceedances of the air 
quality standard. However as maintenance only takes place for a small proportion of the year and the 
emergency scenario will only occur if the National Grid supply is interrupted, we are therefore satisfied the 
risk of impact on air quality is low. 
The Operator has outlined how they intend to manage their operation to minimise the likelihood of National 
Grid service failure and to minimise the running of engines during maintenance. To ensure the site 
minimises its potential impact on the environment, we have included improvement conditions in the permit 
which require the Operator to review and manage their emissions and to work to further improve the 
impact of the emergency scenario. Specific detail of the site operating techniques and permit conditions 
are outlined in the key issues section of this document. 
The Operator has identified that they have a fire detection system where there are heat sources onsite. 
There is also a sprinkler system in the halls. The generators are housed within containers, are regularly 
maintained, do not run for long hours and are located outside the building with spaces between each unit. 
We have reviewed the measures to manage fire from the generators and we are satisfied that appropriate 