EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  5 
Noise 
The site will only run engines regularly for maintenance 30 minutes quarterly for each data hall and an 
annual test for each generator. Prolonged operation will only occur in an emergency situation where the 
National Grid supply is lost. This however is deemed a low risk and the operator has taken measures as 
described in this document to reduce the potential for grid failure. The potential for prolonged noise is 
therefore considered to be low. 
To minimise noise from the operation, the generators, chillers, fans and transformers are housed in acoustic 
containers. The engines also undergo regular maintenance to minimise noise. Although no noise 
management plan has been requested to date, permit condition 3.4 enables the Environment Agency to 
request one if considered necessary in the future. We have received no noise complaints regarding this site. 
Due to the nature of the site, to ensure noise emissions are prevented during maintenance and emergency 
operation we have included improvement condition IC5 which requires the Operator to undertake a noise 
survey and assessment in line with BS4142 2014 during operation of the generators to determine levels of 
impact. In the event a risk of noise is identified, the operator shall propose measures to minimise the 
identified noise risk along with timescales for approval. The operator will be required to implement these 
noise reduction measures within the timescale agreed with the Environment Agency.  
BAT 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the particular 
configuration and plant sizing meeting the standby arrangement. 
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m
3. 
The generator specifications on the site have emissions significantly higher than this. The BAT assessment 
attributed this to the generators being on site when it was purchased. We do acknowledge that it would not 
be practicable to require the operator at this stage to upgrade all plant to BAT standards. However upgrade 
of some plant could be considered as part of the requirement to reduce short term nitrogen dioxide outlined 
in improvement condition IC4.  
 
Retrofit abatement techniques for existing installations for engine emissions such as selective catalytic 
reduction (SCR) would not normally be expected for standby plant to mitigate the emissions for 
standby/emergency operat ion. The Operator confirmed that they will carry out further investigation into 
reductions in short term NOx and may consider options such as changes to operational control of the plant, 
modifications to the flue gas dispersion or installation of NO
x reduction equipment. Options such as these will 
need to be considered further through the response to improvement condition IC4. 
The operator will put multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of failure including a single serving 
substation, dual grid connects and management systems for preventing data centre failure. The site only 
operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. 
 
Protection of groundwater through effective containment measures 
Each set of generators is housed within bunded containers with sufficient capacity to contain a complete loss 
of fluids held within the generator / engine. Associated diesel tanks also have secondary containment in the 
form of an outer tank with 110% capacity of the inner tank. Leak detection alarms are installed within the 
tanks and all fuel fill points are bunded. The gener ator and diesel tanks are served by a preventative 
maintenance programme and spill prevention kits are located in the plant areas. Because of the nature of the 
site there is sufficient security and CCTV in place to manage access, and vehicle movements are minimal. 
Crash barriers are also provided around tanks to prevent impact.  
The operator has confirmed that th ey have oil interceptors installed on the drainage system surrounding the 
fuel tank/fill points. We are not satisfied this re present appropriate tertiary containment in line with 
appropriate industry standards. 