EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  4 
To further manage and minimise emissions, improvement condition IC4 has been included in the permit 
which requires the Operator to submit a review of options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide 
emissions impacts for the grid failure emergency scenario. In the short term this concern will be addressed 
through the Air Quality Management Plan required by improvement condition IC1. 
The Environment Agency has specified that the Operator shall have a written action plan to manage the 
prolonged emergency running of the plant. This will include a sensitive receptors list, review of mitigation, 
assessments of impacts, and evaluation against modelled ri sk conditions (i.e. occurrence at periods of most 
concern in the year, possibly ambient air monitoring surveillance at very sensitive receptors). The action plan 
will include measures proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The Operator is expected to work 
with the local authority to develop this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered. 
A Schedule 5 notice was issued requesting additional information on potential improvements that could be 
made on site such as upgrading of generators or increased stack heights to improve dispersion of NO
2. 
Improvement condition IC4 requires the Operator to expand of their response to this information request and 
submit a review of options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide emissions impacts for the grid 
failure emergency scenario – see section on BAT below for further information.  
We have also specified improvement condition IC3 requir ing the Operator to determine the actual short term 
NOx concentrations at the site boundary through monitoring to validate the conclusions reached in the air 
quality assessment within the application and to inform the air quality management plan.  
 
Permit conditions 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combusti on activity; and thereby emission limit values ELVs 
to air (and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation 
includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive (IED) and Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD). The Environment Agency 
expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations 
(subject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating re serve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market and importantly provide a 
clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘Emergency plant’. 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by 
minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The permit application must assess and provide evidence of actual reliability data for the local electricity grid 
distribution (including data centre internal electrical design) for the Environment Agency to judge the realistic 
likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode (especially if 
emissions modelled have the potential to exceed short term air quality standards). 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) require both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
 
 