EPR/HP3136DK/A001 
Date issued: 12/10/2018  2 
Key issues of the decision 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Schedule 1 Part A(1) 1.1 activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 or more megawatts (MW).  
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The 
combustion activity comprises 40 diesel fuelled standby generators. 3 of the generators have a thermal input 
of 4MWth, 3 generators of 3.6 MWth, 3 generators of 3.4 MWth each and 31 generators of 3.2 MWth. The 
aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 132MWth. Each generator has an exhaust, approximately 
between 4.4 and 5.5m above ground level.  
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. 
The diesel fuel is stored in individual double skinned tanks below the generators. The tanks vary in size from 
23,750 litres up to 38,000 litres. Each set of generators are housed within bunded containers. The site is 
covered in hardstanding and surface water gullies drain into an oil interceptor prior to discharge from site. 
The fuel tanks are fitted with leakage alarms. There is no sewer connection related to the process. Surface 
water runoff passes via an oil interceptor to a surface water sewer for the industrial estate. 
The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of mains failure all the generators 
will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load demand at the site. All the generators are subject 
to a testing schedule which is as follows:  
1. On Load: Routine quarterly testing of the site: Each data hall is tested with generators at 46% 
load for a maximum of 30 min quarterly.  
2. Load Bank: Annual test that involves each of the 40 generators operating one at a time at 46% 
load for 1-1.5 hours.  
The site is located on Watford Business Park. The National Grid Reference for the site is TQ 508927 
194960. The site is approximately 2.25 hectares in size. The surrounding area is a mix of industrial, 
commercial and residential uses. 
There is no sewer connection related to the process. 
Air Quality  
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO 2) resulting from the combustion 
process on site. The Operator has submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the potential 
impact of emission of NO2 from the generators on local air quality.  
The data centre is not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and there are no AQMAs within 
2km of the site.  
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU ) audited the air dispersion modelling and report 
submitted with the permit application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
modelling were assessed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 