 
Page 9 of 19 
deposition are all insignificant against site-specific critical loads and levels at all 
ecological sites. 
Air quality improvement conditions 
We have specified that the operator shall have a written Air Quality Management 
Plan (AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency running of the plan 
and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours, as far as possible.  
This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptor. The Operator is 
expected to work wit the Local Authority to develop this plan to ensure local 
factors are fully considered.  This production of this AQMP is included in the 
permit through Improvement Condition 1 (IC1). 
We have set Improvement Condition 2 (IC2) which requires the operator to detail 
proposals and subsequently undertake a monitoring programme to verify the 
predicted short-term nitrogen oxides (NOX) and dust concentrations at the 
boundary of the site or off-site locations of sensitive receptors, as appropriate. 
Improvement Condition 3 (IC3) requires the operator to submit a report detailing 
the results and conclusions of the emissions monitoring undertaken as part of 
IC2.  This will contribute to the validation of conclusions reached in the air quality 
assessment and inform the air quality management plan.  IC3 also requires the 
operator to review the options for reducing the predicted emission impacts.  The 
reduction measures are expected to achieve a reduction of impacts during both 
the maintenance / testing and emergency operations.  In setting IC2 and IC3 we 
have considered the level of the NOX peaks predicted by the Applicant’s 
modelling. 
Best Available Techniques 
Technology, Configuration and Sizing 
The choice and configuration of back-up energy plant was driven by the data 
centre design.  Smaller numbers of larger capacity machines were considered 
unsuitable for the site when initially designed (approximately 15 years ago).  The 
design allows for different suites of generators to support a set of servers. 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s Data Centre FAQ document, we accept 
that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology. 
The permit limits the applicant to using only ultra-low sulphur gas oil.  Polishing of 
the fuel minimises use of raw materials, limiting creation of waste. 
The default engine specification as a minimum for new plant, to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air (NOx), is 2g TA-Luft, Tier II US EPA or equivalent 
standard.  All engines were put into operation before 2018, meaning they are 
classified as ‘existing MCP’.  Six engines (emitting A6 – A11), have equivalent 