 
Page 15 of 19 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018.  By setting permit condition 
2.3.6, operation of generators in an emergency is limited to 500 hours per year.  
Furthermore, monthly testing for each engine is only 5 hours and 5 minutes per 
engine, with no engines operating simultaneously.  Therefore, emissions to air 
are minimised which will aid the delivery of national air quality targets. We do not 
consider that we need to include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels.  
Tables S2.1 specifies that the gas oil for fuelling generators must have a sulphur 
content lower than 0.001%.   
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme.  We have included the following improvement 
conditions: 
IC1 requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) in 
conjunction with the Local Authority.  This outlines any measure to be taken in 
the event of a National Grid failure and identifies trigger points during an 
emergency where the Environment Agency and Local Authority should be 
notified.  This improvement condition is included in all data centre permits. 
IC1 is included for the production, in conjunction with the local authority of an 
AQMP.  IC2 and IC3 are included as we consider the predicted impacts are 
sufficiently above the EQS for the emergency scenario to require ambient air 
monitoring. 
IC4 requires the operator to submit a monitoring plan for approval, outlining their 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in Table S3.1.  This IC also helps to establish a timeline for installation of sample 
points where required. 
IC5 requires the Operator to conduct integrity testing on their fuel tanks and fuel 
pipelines.  Exact specifications for the tanks cannot be provided, and therefore 
we have included the improvement condition to ensure these aging tanks are still 
fit for purpose and are being maintained appropriately. 
IC6 requires the operator to undertake an inspection to confirm the specifications 
of the two existing interceptors on site.  The interceptors were installed many 
years ago, and the capacity is unknown.  We have included this improvement 