 
Page 7 of 19 
The outcomes of our full audit are summarised in the following: 
Testing Scenarios: 
The modelled testing operation of the generators is in line with the schedules 
outlined above in the ‘Operating Scenarios’ section.  Our conclusions are below: 
Long-term impacts on Human Receptors: 
• At all human receptors, process contributions for NO and PM are less than 
1% of the applicable long-term environmental standards, therefore we 
consider impacts are insignificant. 
• At all human receptors, process contributions for NO2 are not predicted to 
be less than 1% of the long-term environmental standard, however the 
predicted environmental concentration does not exceed the long-term 
quality standard, therefore we consider impacts to be not significant. 
Short-term impacts on Human Receptors 
• Process contributions for SO2, CO and PM10 are less than 10% of their 
short-term environmental standards, therefore we consider impacts from 
these emissions to be insignificant. 
• Predicted environmental concentrations of NO and 100th percentile NO2 
concentrations for AEGL-1, AEGL-2 and AEGL-3 are all less than 100% of 
their relevant standards.  Therefore, we do not predict any exceedances 
and consider the impacts to be not significant. 
• Exceedances of the NO2 1-hour environmental standard are predicted, 
however statistical analysis confirms that there is a low probability of an 
exceedance occurring (less than 1%).  We agree with this conclusion and 
note that where statistical probabilities are less than 5%, we consider that 
exceedances are unlikely. 
Long-term Impacts on Ecological Receptors 
• At all statutory ecological receptors, process contributions of NOX and SO2 
are less than 1% of their long-term environmental standards.  At all local 
wildlife sites, process contributions of NOX and SO2 are less than 100% of 
their long-term environmental standards.  Therefore, we consider impacts 
from these emissions to be insignificant. 
• At all statutory ecological receptors, process contributions of nutrient 
nitrogen and acid deposition are less than 1% of their long-term 
environmental standards.  At all local wildlife sites, process contributions 
of nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition are less than 100% of their long-
term environmental standards.  Therefore, we consider impacts to be 
insignificant. 