 
Page 5 of 19 
The PC is the estimated concentration of an emitted substance, and when 
calculated within a dispersion model, takes into account relevant parameters of 
the release and surrounding conditions, including local meteorology. 
Once short-term and long-term PCs have been calculated, they are compared 
with Environmental Standards (ES). 
PCs are considered insignificant if: 
• The long-term PC is less than 1% of the relevant ES; and 
• The short-term PC is less than 10% of the relevant ES. 
 
The long term 1% PC insignificance threshold is based on the judgements that: 
• It is unlikely that an emission at this level will make a significant 
contribution to air quality; and 
• The threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and 
the environment. 
 
The short term 10% insignificance threshold is based on the judgements that: 
• Spatial and temporal conditions mean that short term PCs are transient 
and limited in comparison with long term process contributions; and 
• The threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and 
the environment. 
 
When assessing the significance of PCs at local nature sites, we consider that 
emissions are insignificant if: 
• The long-term PC is less than 100% of the relevant ES for protected 
conservation areas; and 
• The short-term PC is less than 100% of the relevant ES for protected 
conservation areas. 
 
When an emission is screened out in this way, we would normally consider that 
the applicant’s proposals for prevention and control of the emission are 
acceptable. However, where an emission cannot be screened out as 
insignificant, it does not mean it will necessarily be significant. 
Where pollutants do not screen out as insignificant, we determine whether 
exceedances of the relevant ES are likely.  This is done through detailed audit 
and review of the applicant’s dispersion modelling, taking background 
concentrations and modelling uncertainties into account. 
The assessment considers the predicted environmental concentration (PEC), 
which is the PC of the substance, plus the background concentration of the 
substance already present in the environment. 
PECs are considered to be not significant where: 
• Proposed emissions comply with associated emission levels (AELs) or the 
equivalent requirements where there is no AEL; and 