 
Page 11 of 19 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
As the data centre is already operational, the drainage and containment 
infrastructure are already in place, predating the permit application.  Generator 
sets and fuel tanks are all located above-ground, outside the data centre itself.  
Weekly walk overs are undertaken to provide a visual inspection of all generators 
/ tanks.  The positioning of tanks limits the potential risks to land, surface water 
and groundwater, as they are protected from impact.  We note that all tanks are 
integrally bunded to provide 110% containment and have leak detection alarms in 
the annulus.  However, as build standards / ages of the fuel tanks were not 
provided; we have set Improvement Condition IC5 which requires integrity testing 
for tanks and pipework.  The operator is also required to review the containment 
measures currently in place at the site against the standards set out in gov.uk ‘Oil 
storage regulations for businesses’.  Where improvements are required, the 
proposals along with an implementation timescale will be reviewed and agreed 
with the Environment Agency. 
Full specifications for the interceptors have not been provided, therefore one 
element of Improvement Condition IC6 requires the operator to undertake an 
inspection and confirm the specification of the interceptors including alarms and 
capacity.  They must also consider the applicability of installing a physical device 
on the drainage system for the purpose of full retention, and any improvements 
identified would be carried out on a timescale agreed with the Environment 
Agency. 
Any surface water discharges from the installation pass through one of two 
interceptors before discharging to surface water sewer via W1 and W2 emission 
points.  We have included IC7 to confirm the Operator’s understanding of surface 
water drainage from the site. 
Noise 
Routine operation of the generators for testing purposes will only occur during the 
daytime, when residual and background sound levels are naturally higher.  
Generators are housed in acoustic containers and there is an acoustic wall along 
the southern boundary of the site. 
Testing of generators is staggered, with a maximum of three generators 
operating at any one time; we consider that this minimises the risk of significant 
noise emissions from the installation.  Sustained operation of the engines should 
occur only infrequently, limiting the potential for impact from the generators at 
receptors.  We consider the likelihood of prolonged outages to be low. 
A full Noise Impact Assessment and Noise Management Plan were not required.  
However we have included our standard noise conditions within the permit, which 
allows us to ask for a Noise management Plan if we become aware of noise-
related issues on site. 