 
Page 17 of 19 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able 
to comply with the permit conditions. 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the 
guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to grant this 
permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance, and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public, and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 