 
Page 13 of 19 
RGN2 ‘Defining the scope of the installation’ and Appendix 1 of RGN 2 
‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’. 
The operator has provided the grid reference for the emission points from the 
medium combustion plants/specified generator. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The activities 
are defined in table S1.1 of the permit.  
The site 
The operator has provided plans which we consider to be satisfactory.  These 
show the extent of the site of the facility, including the discharge points. 
The plans show the location of the part of the installation to which this permit 
applies on that site. 
A plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory.  They have chosen not to collect reference data via 
intrusive sampling, meaning a baseline of ‘zero’ is assumed.  We note that the 
site has been operational for more than ten years. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on site condition reports 
and baseline reporting under the Industrial Emissions Directive. 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the 
screening distances we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations. The 
application is within our screening distances for the following designated sites: 
• Mole Gap to Reigate Escarpment Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) 
• Mole Gap to Reigate Escarpment Special Area of Conversation (SAC) 
 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature 
conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any site of nature conservation, 
landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats identified. 