 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC4 Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of 
the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in table S3.1, in line 
with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and 
specified generators’ Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as 
TGN M5). The plan shall include, but not necessarily be limited to: 
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a 
proposal to install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational 
constraints affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any 
proposed deviation from the testing regime specified in 
permit table S3.1.  
 
Within 12 months from 
the date of issue of the 
permit EPR/JP3929SJ 
IC5 Fuel Storage 
 
The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment Agency 
for assessment and written approval. 
 
The report must contain: 
• Evidence of integrity tests carried out on all fuel storage tanks 
and associated pipework by a suitably qualified person. 
• Demonstration that tanks meet gov.uk guidance “Oil Storage 
regulations for businesses”, last updated 02/05/2023 
• Where improvements are required, proposals and their 
timescale for implementation. 
• Details of ongoing maintenance schedule for tanks and 
pipework. 
 
The operator must implement the proposals in the report in line with 
the timescales agreed with the Environment Agency. 
 
Submit the written report 
within 8 months of issue 
of EPR/JP3929SJ/A001 
or as agreed in writing 
with the Environment 
Agency 
 
IC6 Interceptors and Containment 
 
The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment Agency 
for assessment and written approval. 
 
The report must contain: 
• Evidence of the specification of the interceptor, including 
alarms and capacity 
• A review of the measures in place which minimise the risk of 
pollution from potential spillages during fuel delivery, or from 
release of firewater. 
• Where required, a proposal to install physical devices e.g. 
penstock valve, to ensure retention of hazardous effluent in 
the event of firewater release, or a tanker spill. 
 
The operator must implement the proposals in the report in line with 
the timescales agreed with the Environment Agency. 
 
Submit the written report 
within 8 months of issue 
of 
EPR/JP3929SJ/A001or 
as agreed in writing with 
the Environment Agency 
 