 
Page 18 of 19 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: UKHSA 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
- Nitrogen dioxide is the main emission of concern 
- Dispersion modelling indicates that nitrogen dioxide levels off site exceed 
guidance and thresholds. 
- Concerns during emergency scenarios that emission levels exceed US 
EPA AEGL Level 1 for Units 2 and 3, and HSE workplace exposure limits 
are exceeded for Unit 3. 
- Although Unit 2 and 3 have independent power supplies, both power 
supplies could fail. 
- Unit 1 should be considered within worst case modelling. 
- Infrastructure plans are not clear regarding tanks / underground pipework.  
Conditions of this infrastructure is not clear from the application, 
particularly with regard to integrity testing on underground pipework. 
- UKHSA would support the applicants offer to monitor air quality at the site 
boundary. 
 
Summary of action taken / responses: 
- An audit of the dispersion modelling has been undertaken by our AQMAU 
team, with sensitivity checks conducted; more detail is in the key issues 
section of this decision document.  Following our audit: 
o The Applicant adjusted their testing regimes and re-modelled to 
reduce PCs and ensure testing of the generators does not lead to 
exceedances of environmental standards. 
o We do not predict exceedances of AEGL 1 during any testing 
scenarios. 
o There is potential for exceedances of EQS’ and critical levels/loads 
during emergency operation, however we agree that emergency 
scenarios are highly unlikely.  IC1 has been included for the 
operator to produce an AQMP in conjunction with the local 
authority.  IC2 and IC3 have been included to ensure monitoring at 
the site boundary is undertaken, and emission reduction measures 
are implemented if necessary, in agreement with the Environment 
Agency. 
- We agree with the applicant’s assessment that operation of generators is 
highly unlikely, given that each Unit is connected to two different electrical 
substations (Three Bridges and Caterham).  The Applicant provided 
additional information regarding electrical reliability and past operation 
during emergencies.  This is discussed in the ‘Key Issues’ section above. 
- Unit 1 is not a data centre and is not considered within the applicant’s 
modelling; we are satisfied with the approach taken. 