 
Page 10 of 19 
emissions with NOX concentration of 1830mg/m3 at 5% reference oxygen and 
normal conditions (at 100% load).  All other existing generators do not meet 2g 
TA-Luft, Tier II US EPA or an equivalent standard.  We have included 
Improvement Conditions IC2 and IC3 to ensure impacts from NOX emissions at 
the site boundary are monitored, and improvements to reduce these impacts are 
undertaken where required. 
Electrical Reliability 
As the operation of generators is considered undesirable, the incoming power 
system was designed to ensure that only the most major power outages would 
trigger the need for the generators to be used to support the data centre. 
Initially when a fault is detected an ‘uninterruptible power supply’ is provided by 
on-site battery arrays to cover any potential loss or deduction in the supply to 
data servers for 6 minutes. 
Power to the site is provided by the National Grid, received from two substations.  
Therefore, if either power feed is unavailable, the on-site power system could be 
re-aligned without engaging back-up generators. 
The applicant noted that since 2015, the generators have only run outside of 
normal testing once during a power fault in 2022, which caused two generators to 
run.  
Permit Conditions 
The permit limits use of generators to exclude voluntary elective power 
generation (e.g. Triad avoidance, STOR etc).  Furthermore, generators are 
limited to 500 hours per year for emergency back-up. 
Routine testing of generators is <50 hours per year, with the operating 
techniques incorporated into Table S1.2 in the permit.  Emission limit values have 
not been incorporated into the permit, as they are not applicable when operating 
the combustion plant for <500 hours per year. 
Monitoring requirements are included in the permit for all plant, with initial 
measurements required before 01/01/2030.  This monitoring is included for NOx 
and CO every 1500 hours of operation or once every five years (whichever 
comes first). 
Limits to the AR1 activity within the permit exclude any elective power operation 
such as Short-Term Operating Reserve (STOR) and triad management activities. 
 
 