 
Page 6 of 19 
• The resulting PECs do not exceed 100% of the environmental standards. 
 
Where exceedances are predicted, we may require the applicant to go beyond 
what would normally be considered BAT for the installation to ensure that ESs 
are met.  Local factors are also taken into consideration, for example proximity 
and impacts upon sensitive designated habitats sites (SAC, SPA, Ramsar, 
SSSI), which may require us to include more stringent conditions within the 
permit. 
The applicant’s Air Quality Impact Assessment was completed by a consultant 
and audited by the Environment Agency’s Air Quality Modelling and Assessment 
Unit (AQMAU). 
Modelling was completed for the three testing scenarios (i.e. monthly testing, 
quarterly testing, annual testing), plus two emergency scenarios – the first where 
Units 2 and 3 are operating separately, and the second where Units 2 and 3 are 
required to operate together for 72 hours. 
The initial modelling we received was completed somewhat conservatively – for 
example, the consultant conservatively assumed all generator’s annual one-hour 
testing would be completed on the same day.  The Applicant confirmed that in 
practice this would never occur. 
Following our initial audit of the Applicant’s AQIA, we informed the Applicant that 
they would need to reduce their impacts at the Holmethorpe Sandpit Complex 
SNCI, as large exceedances were predicted during testing scenarios.  This could 
be achieved by adjusting their testing regime, heights of stacks, producing less 
conservative / more realistic modelling.  The Applicant opted to adjust their 
testing regime and provide updated modelling of air impacts from this testing 
regime, to ensure there would not be a significant impact at this ecological 
receptor. 
We completed sensitivity checks on the modelling provided to determine whether 
we agree with the impacts modelled, and the conclusions drawn by the 
Consultant.  As part of these checks, we have used different met data, surface 
roughness, conversion rates for NOX to NO2 and also included an additional 
human receptor.  The consultant has assumed a 35% NOX to NO2 conversion in 
their assessment for human receptors.  Due to the location of receptors, we 
considered that a 15% conversion rate is more appropriate for receptors within 
500m of the installation. 
It is important to note that the installation has been operating for over 10 years, 
therefore we are aware that background concentrations will already include 
emissions from the facility. 
 
 