 
Page 8 of 19 
Short-term impacts on Ecological Receptors 
• Process contributions of NOX at all statutory ecological receptors are less 
than 1% of the environmental standard, therefore we consider impacts 
from these emissions to be insignificant. 
• Process contributions of NOX at all local wildlife sites is less than 100% of 
the environmental standard, therefore we consider impacts from these 
emissions to be insignificant. 
Emergency Scenarios: 
Two emergency scenarios were modelled by the Consultant: 
• Generators running consecutively for 120 hours, Units 2 and 3 operating 
separately 
• Generators from both Units 2 and 3 operating simultaneously for 72 hours. 
 
We consider these scenarios represent a conservative worst case scenario for 
this installation, given the information provided by the Applicant on the reliability 
of the connection of the installation to the electric grid. 
Short-term impacts on both Human and Ecological Receptors 
We found that there is the potential for exceedance of the NO2, NO2 AEGL-1 and 
NO short-term environmental standards at sensitive human receptors, and 
exceedance of the NOX short-term environmental standards at ecological 
receptors.  However, the structural preventative measures taken to avoid the 
occurrence of this scenario make the source/pathway/receptor mechanism very 
unlikely.  For the installation, we consider that the reasonably likely 
source/pathway/receptor mechanism would consist of periodic testing operation 
of the generators. 
The Applicant has confirmed that since 2015, all generators have not been 
required to run outside of their normal testing regime, aside from one power fault 
in 2022 which caused only two generators to run simultaneously for a short 
period. 
Provided power outages continue to be unlikely, the risk of an air quality 
exceedance from emergency operation is low.  Furthermore, Emergency 
Scenario 2 assumes all engines running for 72 hours, whereas in practice, 6 
generators would ramp down following initial switch on, to support the load of the 
data centre servers, and buildings.  All generators would not remain operational 
for a prolonged period to time. 
Long-term impacts on both Human and Ecological Receptors 
We found no exceedances of any human or ecological long-term environmental 
standards.  Furthermore, long-term PCs for SO2, nutrient nitrogen and acid 