EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  12 
Aspect considered Decision 
The regulated facility We considered the extent and nature of the facility at the site in accordance 
with RGN2 ‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of 
RGN 2 ‘Defining the scope of the installation’, Appendix 1 of RGN 2 
‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’, guidance on waste recovery plans and permits. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The 
activities are defined in table S1.1 of the permit. 
The site 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, showing 
the extent of the site of the facility. The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is not satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our 
guidance on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive. 
We have advised the operator what measures they need to take to improve 
the site condition report. An Improvement Condition has been included within 
the permit outlining the actions that the operator must take. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect all known sites of 
nature conservation, landscape and heritage and/or protected species or 
habitats identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any sites of nature 
conservation, landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats 
identified. 
Further information is included in the Key Issues Section of this document. 
We have consulted Natural England on our Habitats Regulations and SSSI 
assessments, and taken their comments into account in the permitting 
decision. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
We have included in the permit improvement conditions relating to the 
management of risk relating to emissions to air and the containment of diesel 
on site. 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  