 
Permit number 
EPR/KP3139DW 2 
Colt - Welwyn  
Permit number EPR/KP3139DW 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice. 
The main features of the permit are as follows:  
Colt Technology Services operates a data centre to the east of Welwyn Garden City within the Peartree 
Industrial Estate. To the west, north-west and south-east of the site are industrial and business units. To the 
north, east and south of the site are more sensitive receptors including residential developments and 
Panshanger School. The National Grid Reference for the site is TL2536112806. The site is approximately 
4.65 hectares in size. 
This facility consists of the following scheduled activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016: 
- Section 1.1 A (1) (a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 megawatts or 
more. 
The regulated facility, when at full capacity, will consist of 75 diesel fuelled standby generators each with a 
net thermal input greater than 1MWth and an aggregated thermal input of 266.6MWth. The generators will 
only operate in the event of failure of the National Grid power supply to site or in accordance with a 
scheduled testing and maintenance regime. They will not themselves generate any electricity for export to 
the National Grid. There are also two smaller generators, each with net thermal input less than 1MWth, these 
are used solely for powering administration offices and a fire suppression pump. 
To ensure there will always be sufficient generation capacity available to supply standby power to site, the 
facility will operate with a built in resilience. When the full complement of 75 generators are on site, no more 
than 42 of these will be required to meet the expected site energy requirements in the event of National Grid 
outage. 
The generators will serve specified data halls and combustion products (NO
x, CO, PM10) generated by their 
operation will be released to air through individual exhausts which are vertical, horizontal or at 45° angle set 
at heights of approximately 3.7 – 14.0m above ground level.    
The diesel to power the generators is stored a series of primary tanks and local belly tanks specific to 
individual generators. The tank capacities range from 10,000 litres to 64,000 litres. Two smaller tanks supply 
fuel for the two smaller generators. 
The site is covered in hardstanding and surface water/rainfall is collected in a series of underground site 
drains which discharge off-site to sewer via a series of oil/water interceptors and a pollution defender device. 
The facility is approximately 8.7km north-west of Wormley-Hoddesdonpark Woods Special Area of 
Conservation (SAC) and 1.4km south-west of Tewinbury Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). The facility 
is not within the boundary of an Air Quality Management Area.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 