EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  7 
additional standby generators at the site. The report must demonstrate how the specification of the 
generator, height and orientation of discharge flue, location of generator and operational programme are 
designed to minimise NOx emissions and optimise atmospheric dispersion with a view to reducing any 
impact of short-term NOx emissions on sensitive local receptors. At the time of permit issue (January 2019), 
the construction works for installation of the additional generators required to complete the site expansion 
programme (generators 61-75) had commenced.  
 
The operator has justified its use of a large number of smaller generators rather than installation of fewer 
larger generators because of the modular nature of the site and potential restriction of its expansion plans as 
new clients would be less able to modify data hall designs to suit their individual needs. Smaller generators 
can be more readily added to the site giving greater flexibility as the site expands. 
 
The operator has justified not limiting the number of stacks or not grouping stacks into common windshields 
because that would compromise the “2n” redundancy arrangement as, if one stack was unable to be used, 
then multiple generators may not be able to operate. In addition, routing stacks to common windshields is 
problematic due to the geographical location of the generators on site, the amount of pipework and support 
structures necessary and the overall space constraints on the site due to the fact it was not originally 
designed as a data centre.  
 
Noise: 
The site will operate the generators for testing purposes for set periods each weekend. Prolonged operation 
outside of weekend periods will only occur in an emergency situation where the National Grid supply is lost. 
This is deemed a low risk as the reliability of the National Grid power supply is very good and the operator 
has taken measures to reduce the potential for, and the potential impact of, grid failure. The potential for 
prolonged noise is therefore considered to be low. 
To minimise noise from the site, the operator has taken a number of steps including: 
- The walls of ground floor generator rooms are constructed to achieve a specific noise reduction 
performance; 
- Acoustic attenuation is fitted to intake louvres and exhaust flues of ground floor generator rooms; 
- A 5m acoustic screen is located around the ground level indirect evaporative cooling units and a 4m 
acoustic screen is located around those at rooftop level. 
The operator provided a noise assessment of site operation to accompany the permit application. Although 
they based this assessment on the principles of BS4142:2014, it was largely an noise assessment focused 
on planning requirements and did not address the entirety of noise sources expected when the site is fully 
operational with its maximum complement of generators. We are satisfied however on a risk-based approach 
for permitting purposes that the operator has demonstrated that systems are in place on site to manage and 
minimise noise. There is no history of noise complaints relating to the operation of this site.  
However to ensure noise emissions are prevented during maintenance and emergency operation we have 
included improvement condition IC3 which requires the Operator to undertake a noise survey and 
assessment in line with BS4142:2014 during operation of the generators to determine levels of impact. In the 
event a risk of noise is identified, the operator shall propose measures to minimise the identified noise risk 
along with timescales for approval. The operator will be required to implement these noise reduction 
measures within the timescale agreed with the Environment Agency. 
Although no noise management plan has been requested to date, permit condition 3.4 enables the 
Environment Agency to request one if considered necessary in the future.  