EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  3 
The modelling and our audit of that monitoring indicated that: 
(1) Maintenance operations: 
NO2 concentrations during maintenance operations are expected to meet the annual Air Quality Standard 
(AQS) of 40µg/m3 at all modelled sensitive locations. The hourly mean NO2 Predicted Environmental 
Concentration (PEC) at sensitive residential receptors to the south and south west of the site boundary 
exceeded the short term AQS of 200µg/m3 more than 18 times a year. The maximum predicted number of 
exceedances was 34 which related to a commercial unit. Five receptor locations were identified where the 
short term objective was likely to be exceeded – two of which were residential and three were commercial 
premises. The annual mean NO2 objective is predicted to be met at all receptor locations as are the 
objectives for all other pollutants modelled (PM10, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and SO2). 
However our audit of the work indicated that the probability of NO2 exceedance hours coinciding with the 
worst meteorological hours during the maintenance scenario is low. We based this conclusion on the 
quantification of potential exceedances using 100th percentile hourly predictions and the hypergeometric 
probability distribution of 19 of those exceedance hours occurring during the operational hours of the 
maintenance scenario. 
We are satisfied this methodology described in the section of the guidance on short-term statistical analysis 
can be applied to evaluate short term impacts in this case from data centre operation. 
 
(2) Maintenance operations plus three unplanned outages: 
When three unplanned outages on the worst case meteorological hours were included in the model, the area 
of predicted exceedance of the short term NO2 AQS extended to the east and west and the maximum 
number of hours exceeding the short term objective increased to 36. The number of receptors potentially 
experiencing an exceedance of the short term objective did not change. NO2 PEC’s were predicted not to 
exceed the annual mean AQS at all receptor locations.  
NO2 concentrations were not predicted to exceed the long and short term critical level for protection of 
vegetation at all ecological receptors, except at three local wildlife sites within close proximity to the site. 
Here NO
2 concentrations were predicted to exceed the maximum 24 hour critical value for vegetation 
(75µg/m3).  
PEC’s for PM10, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and SO2 did not exceed the relevant short or long term 
AQS.  
No impact was predicted at the Special Area of Conservation, Wormley-Hoddesdonpark Woods (8.6km from 
Colt) or the Site of Special Scientific Interest, Tewinbury (1.4km from site).  
The peak concentrations were predicted to arise adjacent to the generator banks on the south eastern side 
of the data centre.  
The operator noted that scenarios 1 and 2 modelled would be very much worst case situations because: 
- The loading of the generators at testing was mode lled as 100% when it will be 15-35% at monthly 
testing and 0% at annual testing; 
- The duration of testing operations was modelled at one hour when it will be 15 minutes at annual 
testing and up to one hour at monthly testing; 
- The worst case weather scenario was assumed for the annual testing and periods of emergency 
outages modelled; 
- The worst meteorological year (2016) was used for modelling scenarios out of the five years of data 
assessed (2012 – 2016, Luton Airport); 
- Three hourly outages per year were modelled when, in the ten years of site operation, there have 
been only three outages in total (all within a two month period in 2014 and linked to the same 
distribution network operator fault). During this period, less than half the standby generators on site 
operated at loads of 15-35% for approximately 30 minutes. 