 
Permit number 
EPR/KP3139DW 14 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall submit proposals for baseline soil and groundwater 
investigation to the Environment Agency for written approval. 
 
The proposals must cover the entirety of the site occupied by the data 
centre, follow appropriate British and International Standards and 
include the following 
 a description of the scope of investigation including 
characterisation of the physical state of soil under the site,  
 a suite of analyses to be undertaken (for both soil and 
groundwater) 
 potential future monitoring requirements and timescales.  
 
The proposed investigative programme shall ensure that all information 
necessary to make a quantified comparison with the state of the site 
upon definitive cessation of activities and surrender of the environmental 
permit is available. 
01/09/19 
IC2 The operator shall submit a baseline report to the Environment Agency, 
for written approval. The report shall presents and discusses the results 
and analyses of the baseline investigation produced as part of IC1 and 
outline any requirements for future monitoring and timescales for 
implementation to satisfy the requirements of Condition 3.1.2 of the 
permit. 
01/01/20 
IC3 The Operator shall undertake a noise assessment during all periods of 
scheduled generator testing and maintenance. The assessment shall be 
in accordance with the procedures given in BS4142: 2014 (Rating 
industrial noise affecting mixed residential and industrial areas) in order 
to verify the assessment provided within the application.  
 
The assessment shall include, but not be limited to:  
 a review of the noise sources from the facility (where any noise 
sources are identified as exhibiting tonal contributions, they 
shall be quantified by means of frequency analysis); 
 a review of noise mitigation measures. 
 
A written report shall be provided to the Environment Agency for 
approval detailing the findings of the noise assessment.  
 
The report shall include: 
 a review of whether any improvements are required  
 proposals and timescales for their implementation. 
 
The proposals submitted in the report shall be implemented by the 
operator from the date of approval in writing by the Environment Agency. 
01/04/20 