EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  17 
An Improvement Condition is also included in the permit for the operator to submit a more detailed noise 
assessment of the operation of the site (including generators) along with a review of whether any further 
noise abatement measures are required and a timescale for their implementation. 
 
Response received from 
Natural England 
Brief summary of issues raised 
Consultee noted that the application was within the distance criteria for it to affect Tewinbury Site of 
Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). They were satisfied, based on the factors noted by the Environment 
Agency in the Formal Notice, that the operations, if undertaken in strict adherence to the submitted 
proposals, would avoid adverse effects upon the interest features for which the SSSI is notified. 
These factors included: 
- The limited number of Grid failures that would trigger operation of the emergency generators; 
- The resilience level of 2n, meaning only half the generators were required to operate in a loss 
of National Grid power scenario; 
- The conservative assumptions on generator lo ading, duration of operation and meteorological 
conditions used by the applicant in the air dispersion modelling; 
- The potential for optimisation of generators and emission stacks to improve air dispersion. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
We have inserted Improvement Condition, IC7, requiring the operator to investigate how to reduce nitrogen 
dioxide emissions or improve atmospheric dispersion by changes to the generator testing regimes, stack 
height or stack orientation. 
 
Response received from 
Welwyn Hatfield Borough Council (incorporating Planning & Environmental Health Departments) 
Brief summary of issues raised 
Consultee noted that the Council was not aware of any noise or amenity issues at the site and there were 
currently no enforcement issues at the property. The Council therefore had no comments to make on the 
application. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
Improvement Condition, IC3, to undertake a noise assessment using BS 4142:2014 guidelines during 
periods of generator testing, maintenance and emergency scenarios and submit to the Environment 
Agency for approval a report including proposals for further noise control and abatement if required. 
 
Response received from 
Hertfordshire Fire & Rescue Service 
Brief summary of issues raised 
The consultee stated they had no comments to make in relation to this application. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
No further action. 
 