EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  8 
Containment and Prevention of Pollution to Ground and Groundwater: 
Tanks/Bunds/Pipework and Containment: 
It is a requirement of the clients, whose data is being protected by Colt Welwyn, that there is sufficient fuel 
on site to provide approximately 72 hours of generator operation at site load. This is supplied by a number of 
fuel storage tanks located across the installation: 
- Bulk tanks which are located away from the generators in a centralised area near the site car park; 
- Day tanks which are smaller tanks (<1,000 litres capacity) located inside a sealed generator 
container and fed from the main site tanks; 
- “Belly” or “Skid” tanks which are tanks located under the generators; 
- Adjacent bulk tanks which are bulk tanks locate d near, but separate from, individual generators. 
Generators either have their own dedicated tank or share tanks with other generators. 
As of August 2018, there were 42 bulk tanks on-site with capacities ranging from 10,000 litres to 64,000 
litres. A further 10 bulk tanks are to be installed as a result of planned expansion of site operational 
capability. In addition, there were two smaller bulk tanks (928 litres and 250 litres capacity) which are used to 
supply fuel to the generators providing power for the administration building and the fire safety sprinkler 
system. These smaller tanks are located within permanently sealed structures. 
Generators are contained in sealed containers capable of holding the contents of the generators themselves 
and the contents of any day tanks located within the generator container. The bulk tanks also have 
secondary containment in the form of an outer tank that can hold 110% capacity of the inner tank. Tank fill 
points and ancillary pipework are located inside the tank bund and above drip trays to capture small leaks or 
spillages.  
Leak detection is in place for bulk tanks, bunds and interconnecting pipework. This is routinely checked to 
confirm its effectiveness. The fuel tank alarm system is designed to detect and warn of tank overfill, high/low 
tank liquid level and tank bund leak with visual and audible warnings sounding at a remote data monitoring 
centre on site. A Planned Preventive Maintenance (PPM) regime is in place onsite that involves checking the 
tanks and associated pipework for leaks and if there are any signs that the tank/bund integrity is 
compromised. Spill kits are located close to diesel storage tanks across the site and are operated by trained 
personnel in accordance with a documented emergency response procedure.
 
Refuelling activities are carried out by a third-party fuel delivery company supported by Colt Technology 
Services staff in accordance with a documented fuel delivery procedure. During this operation, all fill points 
are in view when refuelling and overfill alarms are in use. 
Because of the sensitive data stored on site, security is very important and all fuel tanks and generators are 
located within a perimeter fence. The site is certified to the international information security standard, ISO 
27001. Tanks and generators that are on site traffic routes have crash barriers provided to protect them from 
potential vehicle collision. 
 
Surface Infrastructure and Drainage: 
The site is covered in good quality hardstanding that reduces the potential for any leak of diesel or other 
materials to reach underlying soils or groundwater. The site has a number of oil/water interceptors located in 
drains which can capture any diesel or oil lost to the drains before they are discharged off-site. 