EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  2 
Key issues of the decision 
Installation: 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Section 1.1 Part A (1) (a) activity under The 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 for the burning of any fuel in an appliance 
with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). 
The electrical power to the data centre halls is provided from the National Grid. The facility uses standby 
diesel fired generators to supply power to the data centre halls in the event of National Grid outage. No 
electricity generated will be exported from the installation. 
The generators will only operate in the event of power outage or during defined periods for testing and 
maintenance duties. 
The combustion plant, when fully developed, will consist of up to 75 generators with an aggregated thermal 
capacity of 266.6MW. There were 60 generators on site as of January 2019.  
There are two additional generators that are below 1MWth input which supply power for site offices 
(0.98MWth) and a fire safety sprinkler system (0.3MWth). 
Air Quality: 
The primary pollutant of concern for emissions to air is nitrogen dioxide (NO2) resulting from the combustion 
of diesel in the standby generators. Each individual generator has its own exhaust and therefore emission 
point to air. The nature of these emission points varies as some are vertical at differing heights, some 
horizontal and some set at an angle to vertical. This has developed over time as new generators and data 
halls have been added to increase site capacity. The operator submitted an Air Quality Modelling Report 
which assessed the potential impact of NO2 and other pollutants on local air quality. 
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) audited the Air Quality Modelling Report submitted 
with the application. Both the emergency operational and testing/maintenance scenarios were assessed. 
The operator modelled the scenarios of: 
(1) Maintenance operations: 
Monthly test - the generators are tested in turns for a maximum of one hour at site load which is estimated as 
15-35% depending on the data hall. These tests are carried out between 08.00 and 18.00 on a Saturday and 
Sunday most weekends in the calendar year.  
Annual test – all generators are tested off load during one week towards the end of the year, often in 
December. Tests are carried out on weekdays between 08.00 and 18.00 and each generator is tested off 
load for 15 minutes. 
(2) Maintenance operations plus three unplanned outages: 
In addition to the testing regimes, the operator added three National Grid outages and emergency generator 
operation of one hour each. 
The operator also carried out a risk assessment which represented the scenario of a prolonged operation of 
the facility with total electrical grid failure at both sub-stations associated with the site. Such an occurrence 
was however considered to be highly unlikely. A rolling 72 hour count of the number of hours exceeding 
200µg/m3 at each receptor was completed to provide a percentage of the year in which more than 18 
exceedances occurred.  
All modelled receptors in the vicinity of the site recorded some exceedance of the short term AQS as a result 
of the site operating continuously, ranging from 7% to 100% of the year. 
 
 