EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  5 
Reliability of Power Delivery in Event of National Grid Outage: 
There is a built-in redundancy to the number of standby generators present on site to ensure they can 
always support the site in the event of any power failure. In the case of Colt Welwyn, the built in redundancy 
is “2n” meaning that there are twice as many generators on site than would be required to deliver full site 
power load. 
 
Permit Conditions: 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all 
the plant producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity. Therefore emission limit values 
(ELVs) to air and engine emissions monitoring are not required within the permit. Emergency hours’ 
operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive (IED) and Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD). The Environment Agency 
expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations 
(subject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market and importantly provide a 
clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by 
minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the actual reliability of the local electricity grid 
distribution allowing the Environment Agency to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to 
operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode is low. However, the atmospheric dispersion modelling 
provided in the application, albeit at very much worst case scenario, has predicted that the emissions of NO
2 
from operation of the generators for solely testing purposes over weekends may itself have the potential to 
exceed short term air quality standards. Although AQMAU has assessed the risk of the exceedance hours 
coinciding with worst case meteorological hours as low, improvement conditions are included in the permit to 
address this. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) require both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
 
Considerations on Medium Combustion Plant Directive and Specified Generator 
Regulations: 
The diesel generator (0.3MWth input)  used for powering the site fire sprinkler system is included as a 
Directly Associated Activity (DAA) in the permit as the sprinkler system serves equipment included within the 
installation boundary such as the standby generators. No emission limits apply to the generator as its power 
rating is <1MWth.  
The diesel generator (0.98MWth) that supplies power to administration offices is not included as a DAA as 
these offices are not within the installation boundary. This generator is not a medium combustion plant as its 
capacity is <1MWth and neither is it a specified generator as it is not part of a capacity agreement or an 
agreement to provide balancing services. 