EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  9 
The site also has a downstream defender pollution control device in place (an advanced hydrodynamic 
vortex separator) that, according to manufacturer’s data, is designed for effective and reliable removal of fine 
particles, oils and other floatable debris from surface water run-off. However, the location of this device in the 
site drainage system does not ensure all discharges pass through this device before discharge off-site. In 
addition, the site has installed a sustainable drainage system (SuDS) based on four underground tanks to 
provide reduction in the surface water flows from site. However this system is designed to only serve 
Catchment Area C on site and diesel storage tanks are also located in areas of site remote from Catchment 
Area C. 
Because of these constraints, we do not accept that the operator has sufficiently demonstrated use of these 
interceptors, pollution control device and SuDS systems represents appropriate tertiary containment for the 
site and have included an Improvement Condition, IC8, requiring the operator to carry out a review of the 
site’s tertiary containment against relevant industry standards. The operator must identify and address any 
deviations from these standards. This will require the operator to demonstrate that the existing tertiary 
containment system is in accordance with the industry standard for a data centre as a number of features of 
the current site surface water system have been developed at different stages of the site life with different 
occupiers and for differing purposes. 
The site drainage plan is currently based on information provided from plans generated by the previous site 
operator updated by information obtained from more recent site visits associated with this permit application. 
It is essentially only an indicative site plan. An improvement condition, IC9, has been included in the permit 
requiring the operator to confirm the exact locations of all site drainage in a new updated site drainage plan. 
The improvement condition also requires the operator to assess the oil interceptors present on site to ensure 
all discharge from site is initially directed to one of these interceptors.  
Very limited information was supplied in the permit application on what the condition of the site would be at 
permit issue. This is addressed through improvement condition, IC1, which has been included in the permit 
requiring the operator to submit to the Environment Agency for agreement proposals for a more detailed 
baseline soil and groundwater investigation and IC2 which requires the operator to submit to the 
Environment Agency a report outlining the outcome of this baseline investigation.  
 
Installation Boundary:  
The operator’s installation boundary encompasses only the combustion activities onsite and their supporting 
activities (standby generators, diesel storage and distribution) as these are the activities which fall under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations and are of environmental concern. The data centre data halls have not 
been included in the permit boundary as they are not activities which are required to be permitted and are 
not of environmental concern. 
We are satisfied that the appropriate aspects of the installation are included in the permitted boundary and 
agreed with the operator that other buildings such as substations, associated battery room, main data halls, 
secondary data halls, chillers and offices could be excluded from the installation boundary. 
We were not satisfied that all the risks of pollution such as loss of containment from diesel storage tanks, 
distribution pipework and fuel delivery vehicles were included in the boundary. We have therefore requested 
the operator revise their site plan to include the site roadways and surface infrastructure within the boundary. 
A satisfactory revised plan was provide and incorporated into the permit 
This approach is consistent with the inclusion of Improvement Condition, IC9, in the permit which requires 
the operator to develop an updated and accurate drainage plan for the entire site. Including the roadways 
within the installation also allowed the surface water point releases offsite, S1, S2 and S3, to be included 
within the installation boundary. 
 
 
 
 