EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  13 
Aspect considered Decision 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for 
emissions that do not 
screen out as insignificant 
Emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) cannot be screened out as insignificant. 
We have assessed whether the proposed techniques are BAT. 
We agree with the applicant that the use of diesel generators to supply power 
to site in the event of National Grid outage is BAT when compared with 
alternative power generation techniques such as spark ignition engines, gas 
turbines, hydrogen fuel cells or selective catalytic reduction. 
We have imposed an improvement condition requiring the operator to assess 
improvements in existing systems (generators and emission locations) for 
future generators to be installed to increase capacity at the site. 
Noise management 
 
We have reviewed the noise management plan in accordance with our 
guidance on noise assessment and control. 
We consider that the noise management plan is not satisfactory as it did not 
address potential noise from all the proposed standby generators planned to 
be present when the site is at full capacity. 
We consider that the activities carried out at the site have the potential to 
cause noise and/or vibration that might cause pollution outside the site and 
consider it appropriate to impose specific measures. We have included a 
specific improvement condition requiring the operator to carry out an 
additional noise survey. During the permit determination process, the 
operator has already commissioned that survey and a report is awaited. See 
the Key Issues Section of this document for further details. 
Permit conditions 
Pre-operational conditions Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to 
impose a pre-operational condition for future development.  
Further information is included in the Key Issues Section of this document. 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. 
Further information is included in the Key Issues Section of this document. 
Emission limits We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Reporting We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the 
standards specified in the operating techniques (including prevention of oil 
and grease in surface water discharged from site) and to ensure the operator 
informs us of any operation of the facility in emergency mode. 
Operator competence 
Management system There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 