EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  15 
Consultation 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on GOV.UK for 
the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section 
Response received from 
Public Health England 
Brief summary of issues raised 
The consultee raised issues in a response letter dated 30th August 2018 over the potential impact on 
health from predicted exceedances of the short term air quality standards for NO2 and the management of 
fire risks at the facility: 
- “The air quality modelling report included as part of this application gives 3 scenarios for which 
the emission of pollutants has been modelled. All of these are highly pessimistic and represent 
the worst case once the facility has reached its full permitted capacity. The latter two scenarios 
include the estimation of emissions where the diesel generators run to supply power in an 
outage, only 3 of which have occurred in 10 years of operation. The first scenario represents 
normal operation in which the generators are maintained and tested each weekend. In all 
scenarios the one hour mean NO
2 air quality objective is anticipated to be exceeded over 18 
times.” 
 
- “While predicted breaches in the one hour mean NO2 objective may be justifiable in the case of a 
rare emergency, we would at least expect the non-emergency operation through the agreed 
maintenance schedule to be compliant. The modelled emissions are in some cases so far above 
the objective that we cannot simply assume that a more realistic scenario would give 
compliance. From the scenarios modelled the hourly mean NO
2 concentrations represent 
unacceptable contributions to local air quality and subsequently have a potential to impact on the 
public health of nearby receptors.” 
 
- “It is recognised that the air quality report acknowledges that the scenarios are highly pessimistic 
and suggests that modelling could be re-run with actual monitoring data in the 12 months 
following the granting of the Environmental Permit. However, in order for us to adequately 
assess the likely risk and impact on public health we would need further modelled assessment o
f 
emissions during routine non-emergency testing of the generators. As the generators are to be 
run through the maintenance programme every weekend, it would be pertinent to obtain actual 
monitoring data to inform the source term and to re-run the model at the earliest opportunity. 
Without such information we have to base our public health assessment on the worst case 
scenario concentrations provided and therefore we have concerns in relation to the potential 
impact on local air quality and public health of the nearby receptors.” 
 
- “Additionally we note that fire risk has not been considered as part of the application, despite 
large quantities of diesel kept above ground on site. We recommend that any Environmental 
Permit issued for this site should contain conditions to ensure adequate risk assessment, 
including an accident management plan are undertaken.” 
 
Further comments were received from the consultee on 10
th October 2018 highlighting the potential to limit 
the installation of further diesel generators until such a time as the improvement conditions had been 
satisfactorily met.  
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
We have discussed with the consultee that the facility is an existing and operational site which now 
requires permitting because of the extent of its combustion activities. Our ability to require improvements 
from the operator are limited until the permit is issued. Once issued, we can, through improvement 
conditions, require the operator to improve operation and reduce emissions or enhance dispersion.  
Improvement Conditions have been included in the permit requiring the operator to: 
- Produce an Air Quality Management Plan in conjunction with the local authority outlining 