 
Permit number 
EPR/KP3139DW 15 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC4 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of National Grid failure. This should include but not be 
limited to the following considerations:  
 The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
 Specific timescales for response measures; 
 How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
 Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
 Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for approval. 
01/07/19 
IC5 The operator shall carry out monitoring of the emissions from the 
generators at their loading rates whilst in testing and emergency 
operation modes.  
 
The monitoring should be for a representative number of generators by 
type and size and to recognised monitoring standard 
 
The operator shall use this data to produce a revised air quality 
modelling report based on actual operational scenarios emissions rather 
than the worst case scenario emissions presented in the environmental 
permit application. 
 
The report shall be submitted to the Environment Agency for written 
approval.  
01/04/20 
IC6 The Operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency for 
approval confirming the short-term nitrogen dioxide concentrations that 
have been predicted in the reassessment of the air quality modelling 
provided in the response to IC5 in proximity to the generators, at the 
boundary of the site and at the identified sensitive local receptors.  
The report shall include but is not limited to: 
 Monitoring of ambient air quality at those required locations 
using monitoring methods agreed in advance with the 
Environment Agency; 
 A comparison of modelled against monitored concentrations of 
nitrogen dioxide; 
 A demonstration that appropriate monitoring location(s) were 
selected taking into account the modelled predictions and the 
weather conditions prevalent at the time of the monitoring; and 
 Details of the MCERTS qualifications held by the monitoring 
team.  
The output of the verification exercise should be used to revise the air 
quality management plan if necessary. 
01/07/20 