EPR/KP3139DW/A001 
Date issued: 18/01/19  4 
Managing emissions:  
To address the predicted exceedances in short term NO2 limits at sensitive receptors the operator will be 
required to minimise the potential impact of emissions through a staged programme of improvement 
conditions.  
Improvement Condition, IC4, requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority that outlines response measures to be taken in the event of National 
Grid failure. 
Improvement Condition, IC5, requires the operator to determine the actual emissions produced by the 
generators during the testing and emergency operation scenarios. The emission rates used in the air quality 
modelling were derived from the manufacturer’s datasheets and do not necessarily reflect the emission rates 
being delivered by the generators in practice. This is because the generators will be operated at reduced 
loads during testing (15-35%) and maintenance (0%) rather than at the 100% loading rate from which the 
emissions used in the air quality modelling were derived. This will therefore be more representative of 
emission rates in operational practice. 
Following this, Improvement Condition, IC6, requires the operator to confirm by monitoring or testing the 
predicted short term NO
2 concentrations at the sensitive receptors close to the boundary of the site and use 
these concentrations to revise, if necessary, the air quality management plan produced in response to 
Improvement Condition, IC4.  
Improvement Condition, IC7, then requires the operator to review options for reducing predicted short term 
NO2 emissions for both testing/maintenance and emergency operations. The focus on NO2 in this 
Improvement Condition is because of the predicted breaches in the air quality modelling report of short-term 
NO2 concentration limits. Completion of this Improvement Condition will necessitate the review of the testing 
regime (duration, number of engines, loading), the generators (compliance with best practice TA-Luft 
standards) and the infrastructure of the stack emission points (stack height, orientation). The operator should 
also provide a cost benefit analysis related to the improvements necessary to reduce the NO2 emissions 
from the generators (particularly those causing most concern – those with highest emission rates, those with 
non-vertical or short stacks and those closest to sensitive receptors). 
We believe that this is the most appropriate mechanism for driving improvements from the operator in the 
area of NO2 emissions and dispersion. This approach of issuing a permit with these improvement conditions 
while allowing continued operation is justified as our audit of the air dispersion modelling provided in the 
application indicated that, although there were predicted exceedances of short term NO2 limits during the 
routine generator testing/maintenance scenarios, the probability of those NO2 exceedance hours coinciding 
with the worst meteorological hours during the maintenance scenario is low. 
For the case of emergency operation, Improvement Condition, IC4, requires the operator to produce a Local 
Air Quality Management Plan in conjunction with the Local Authority outlining their response measures to be 
taken in the event of National Grid failure. 
 
Protection against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation: 
The operator has put in place multiple measures to minimise the risk of power failure including two separate 
electrical substations, each of which has two individual sources, Sides “A” and “B”, meaning the site has 
effectively four power supply routes. If one of these were to fail, the site could switch to an alternative 
unaffected supply reducing the duration of any emergency generator operation. It is expected that the site 
can make this switch in 30 – 60 minutes which would then be the maximum duration the standby generators 
would be expected to operate. 
The site has also an environmental management system (EMS) accredited to ISO14001 and regular 
maintenance, testing and inspection regimes are in place to ensure reliable operation of the site including its 
infrastructure necessary for maintaining National Grid power supply. 
 