Permit number                              
EPR/LP3005BL 2 
Didcot Datacentre   
Permit number EPR/LP3005BL 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes back-up generation capacity, a Schedule 1 S1.1 
Part A(1) (a) activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance 
with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). The site is located on part of the former Didcot A 
Power Station on the outskirts of Didcot. The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 51039 91275. The 
site is approximately 0.25 hectares in size. The surrounding area is a mix of agricultural, industrial, 
commercial and residential uses. 
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario when 
the National Grid power supply fails. The combustion activity comprises 10 diesel-fuelled standby 
generators, each with a thermal input of 6.8 MW. There is also a single diesel-fuelled standby generator with 
a thermal input of 1.7 MW. The aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 69.7 MWth. Each generator 
has an exhaust, which is 15m above ground level.  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. In the event of a failure of this 
electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain power to the datacentre. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation. The datacentre will be developed in four phases as dictated by customer demand for its 
services with each phase requiring two 6.8MWth emergency generators; a further pair are held in reserve. 
The generators are sized to match the electrical requirement of the site’s eight main MV/LV transformers that 
supply the datacentre. The 1.7MWth generator is dedicated to the datacentre office accommodation.  
 
The generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule which includes fortnightly testing at 25% load 
and biannual testing at 100% load. This testing will be carried out one generator sequentially to minimise any 
air quality impact and totals about twenty hours operation per generator per year. In addition there may also 
be an annual full-building test of the generators at 100% load for up to two hours 
 
The engines run on diesel fuel and the installation includes a single bunded storage tank of 40,000 litre 
capacity within the compound. In addition the generators are containerised and each includes a 16,000 litre 
bunded diesel day tank (6,000 l for the smaller generator) within the container. The installation includes a 
refuelling area for use by tankers delivering fuel. 
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide. The site is covered in hardstanding, and surface water drains into a balancing 
pond prior to discharge from site to the Moor Ditch. Potentially contaminated rainwater from the exhaust 
stacks is discharged to sewer. 
 
  