 
 Page 8 of 19  
down-wind receptors. In addition to the generators, the modelling includes the 
impact of 43 Air Handling Units, 42 LEV exhausts and 12 heat- exchangers on 
the roof of the datacentre building, but outside of the Installation. The model also 
includes topography, screening from buildings and the ground type, together with 
‘background’ noise levels obtained by baseline sound monitoring. 
The closest residential receptors to the installation have been identified and 
sound rating levels at each receptors calculated for both day-time and night-time 
events. These were then compared against the World Health Organisation 
Guideline for Community Noise (WHO CGN) criteria. 
 
The site will only run the generators regularly as part of the testing regimes 
described earlier, occurring during daytime hours. The modelling indicates that 
these will not cause an increase in overall ambient sound levels in the area. 
 
Overnight operation of the generators will only occur in an emergency situation. 
The modelling indicates that there is the potential for their noise to be sufficiently 
high that it would be noticeable above existing sources of sound in the area. 
However more detailed assessment indicates that with house windows closed, 
internal noise levels will be below the WHO GCN for sleep disturbance.  As this is 
a new installation it is not possible to consider the likelihood of overnight 
operation by examining the frequency of historical outages, but the potential for 
prolonged power outages in the area is considered to be low.   
 
The operator considers that, bearing in mind the infrequency of these events and 
that affected receptors can counter the effects simply by closing windows, the 
effects are not significant. Nevertheless they have taken measures to minimise 
noise emissions, housing generators in acoustic enclosures to reduce acoustic 
emissions by over 33%.  
 
We have audited the Noise Impact Assessment using our Qualitative Noise 
Screening Tool (RV09). This indicates that noise is unlikely to become an issue 
because of the nature of the installation and its location. The limited hours of 
operation combined with the proposed noise mitigation measures are considered 
to be sufficient to control noise arising from the installation. The local council 
have been consulted in this matter and raised no objection. 
 
We have applied standard noise conditions within the permit which we consider 
impose sufficient control should any issues arise. 
 
The application uses generic generator noise emissions data because at the time 
of the application, the operator has not confirmed exactly which make/models of 
generator is to be installed. We have accepted the use of this generic data, 
however we have included a pre-operational condition (PO2) requiring the operator 
to submit details of the make, type and noise profile of the installed generators and 
to re -submit the noise assessment report should noise from the generators be 
significantly higher than those submitted in the application. 
 