 
 Page 6 of 19  
calculated the likelihood of such an event as 1.46x10-11% per annum and so 
considerers such an event as extremely unlikely. Our audit of the modelling was 
unable to replicate this probability. However our statistical analysis indicated the 
testing regimes are extremely unlikely to coincide with more than 18 exceedance 
hours. 
 
The modelling also indicates that, at its maximum point within the modelled area, 
NOx levels may exceed the level associated with discomfort when exceeded over 
short-term periods (Acute Exposure Guideline Level – AEGL-1 – 940µg/m3), 
although there are no residential receptors at this point. This is the level at which 
Public Heath England may advise members of the public to take protective action 
such as leaving the area or sheltering indoors. In response to a request for 
further information, the operator submitted an isopleth map showing areas where 
the AEGL-1 level is predicted to be exceeded; these are shown to be very limited 
in extent and not in places where the public are likely to remain for significant 
periods. 
 
We have therefore included an improvement condition (IC1) requiring the operator 
to produce an Air Quality Management Plan in conjunction with the Local Authority 
which outlines the measures to be taken in the event of a grid failure. 
Short-term Predicted PM10 Impact at Human Receptors 
The applicant has not modelled the PM10 impact from the Emergency scenario 
because the number of days of operation of the installation does not exceed the 
35-day threshold above which the Air Quality Objective for Particulate Matter 
applies. We have included a permit condition limiting the hours of operation in 
Emergency to 500 hours per year (20 days). 
All of the short-term process contributions of PM10 are below 10% of the Air 
Quality Objective and are therefore not considered to be significant. There is no 
short-term Air Quality Objective for PM2.5, but assuming that all the PM is of 
PM2.5 and comparing this against the more stringent long-term Air Quality 
Objective, the Process Contribution will remain below 10% of the objective and 
therefore not considered significant.  