 
 Page 4 of 19  
 
Modelling of Impacts 
The applicant submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the 
potential impact of emissions of NO2, PM10, SO2 and Hydrocarbons from the 
generators on local air quality. The ADMS 5 software dispersion model was used 
to predict atmospheric concentrations of the identified pollutants; we accept that 
the use of this model is appropriate for these circumstances. 
 
The following parameters were used for input data into the model: 
• Meteorological Data from RAF Benson Met Office 2016 – 2018 
• A complex terrain map of the local area 
• Surface roughness length of 0.5m (representative of suburban areas) 
• Building wake effects from the adjacent data-hall (136m x 67m footprint, 
12.4m high) 
• Four different operating scenarios 
o Testing scenario 1 – each generator individually tested at 25% load 
for 0.5 hours twice a year. 
o Testing scenario 2 – each generator tested at 100% load twice a 
year. 
o Full-building test – all generators operating at 100% load for up to 
two hours once per year. 
o Emergency operation – all 11 generators operating at 100% load 
for 72 hours. 
• Emissions are from 15m high stacks of 0.6m diameter 
• Pollutant emission rates of NOx, PM10 and Hydrocarbons for generators 
typical of those likely to be installed at the installation (TA Luft 2g). 
• Ambient (background) air quality data for NO2 has been obtained from the 
worse annual mean monitored at Lune Close Didcot between 2014 and 
2019. 
• Ambient (background) air quality for PM10, Hydrocarbons, SO2 and CO 
obtained from DEFRA-mapped background concentration estimates. 
 
We have reviewed the parameters used in the model and agree that suitable, 
reasonable worse-case options have been used to provide a conservative 
estimate of the impact. We have audited the model input files used by ADMS 5 
and found that they are in agreement with those stated in the report.    
The model included an ass essment of the long- term impact on air quality , 
comparing the mean annual process contributions of the pollutants from the 
installation against the long-term (annual) air quality standard. The purpose of the 
generators is to provide electrical power over a short period of time (up to three 
days) in the event of grid failure. We have included restrictions in the permit limiting 
the emergency operation of the installation to a maximum of 500 hours a year and 
we expect the operator to comply with the maintenance testing schedule stated in 
the application documents and included in the permit operating techniques table 