 
 Page 7 of 19  
 
The datacentre is situated 6km from the nearest Air Quality Management Areas 
(AQMA) at Abingdon and we are satisfied that the AQMA is highly unlikely to be 
affected by the emissions to air from the proposed installation. The local 
authorities for the area were consulted and made no comments about the impact 
on the AQMA.  
 
We have audited the air dispersion modelling report submitted with the permit 
application. The two maintenance testing scenarios and the emergency scenarios 
within the modelling were assessed. We agree with the operator that predicted 
levels for the three testing regimes and emergency operations are unlikely to cause 
an exceedance of any Environmental Standard for the identified human receptors. 
 
 
Impact at Ecological Receptors 
 
Short term and long term impacts of air borne NO x, Nitrogen deposition and 
acidification on ecological receptors were considered. The process contributions 
at all relevant conservation sites within the relevant screening distance were 
insignificant. Our audit of the modelling confirms that NO x nutrient nitrogen and 
acid deposition process contributions will be insignificant at all conservation sites. 
 
There are two sites designated under the Conservation of Habitats and Species 
Regulations 2017 (the ‘Habitats Regulations’) with the 10km radius used as the 
preliminary screening criteria for identifying likely significant effects. These are 
Little Wittenham and Cothill Fen Special Areas of Conservation (SAC’s) at 5.7km 
and 9.4km from the installation respectively. The modelling indicates that the 
emissions to air from the installation will have no significant effect on any of the 
qualifying features of the two designated sites, with process contributions below 
1% of any critical load. There is no hydraulic connectivity between the installation 
and either of the designated sites and so no source-pathway-receptor linkage 
exists for other impacts. We have submitted a Habitats Regulations Assessment 
to Natural England and received no objection from them.  
 
We have audited the air dispersion modelling report submitted with the permit 
application. The two maintenance testing scenarios and the emergency 
scenarios within the modelling were assessed. We agreed with the operator that 
predicted levels for the three testing regimes and emergency operations were 
unlikely to cause an exceedance of any Environmental Standard for the identified 
ecological receptors 
 
 
Noise  
 
The applicant has provided a detailed noise assessment using the guidance 
within our Horizontal Guidance Note H3 Part 2 – Noise Assessment & Control. 
This uses SoundPlan V8 sound-modelling software to predict the sound levels at 