 
 Page 17 of 19  
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: Public Health England (PHE) & The Director of 
Public Health 
The consultee noted that the main emissions of potential concern are products of 
combustion including nitrogen dioxide (NO2) from the backup diesel generators.  
The application includes a detailed dispersion modelling assessment. The 
modelling assessment considers dispersion impacts associated with testing and 
emergency outage scenarios. The applicant has concluded that the probability 
there being more than 18 exceedances of the 1-hour mean Air Quality 
Assessment Level (200 μg/m3) at receptor locations for any scenario, with worst 
case assumptions and based on 72 hours operation is below 1% and therefore 
extremely unlikely according to Environment Agency guidance. 
For the emergency use scenario, the applicant predicts maximum short-term 
(hourly) NO2 impacts.  
• The applicant has not provided an isopleth plot.  
• Three receptors including a consented area for residential development 
have a predicted PEC of more than 200 μg/m
3 with the highest 
concentration being 420 μg/m3, which corresponds to high air pollution on 
the Daily Air Quality Index (DAQI).  
• The applicant predicts maximum concentrations as 1006 μg/m3, which 
exceeds the US Acute Exposure Guideline Level 1 (AEGL) of 0.5 ppm 
(941 μg/m
3) for nitrogen dioxide, associated with discomfort when 
exceeded over short-term (10 minutes) exposure periods and at which, 
during chemical incidents, members of the public are typically advised by 
Public Health England to take protective action, such as leaving the area 
or sheltering indoors until a chemical hazard has passed.  
 
The consultee recommends that: 
1. The applicant provides an isopleth map and summary table for the 
emergency operation scenario for the short-term (hourly) maximum NO2 
concentrations for various receptor types including publicly accessible areas 
and consider the potential impacts and whether further assessment is 
needed. The control of emissions and prevention of exposure is preferable 
to strategies reliant on public warning and informing during an emergency 
situation.  
2. Although the applicant considers an emergency outage situation to the 
extent outlined in the assessment (as defined by generators operating at 
100% load for 72 hours) is unlikely to happen, the Environment Agency 