 
 Page 3 of 19  
The generators are containerised and run on diesel fuel. Each has an integrally-
bunded day-tank of 16,000 litres fitted with leak detection within its container. 
There is a single 40,000 litre capacity bulk fuel tank located adjacent to the 
generators, which is fully bunded and includes a leak detection system.  
 
The site is covered in hardstanding and includes a refuelling area for use by 
tankers delivering to the site. Surface water from the hardstanding passes 
through an oil interceptor before being discharged to a surface water sewer 
where it joins roof-water, before entering a balancing pond and the Moor Ditch. 
Rainwater from the stack cowls is potentially contaminated by the flue gases and 
so is discharged to foul sewer. 
 
The site is located on part of the former Didcot A Power Station land in 
Oxfordshire. The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 51039 91275. The 
surrounding area is a mix of agricultural, industrial, commercial and residential 
uses. 
 
  
Operating Scenarios 
 
The operational scenarios that have been considered for the installation are: 
Testing Scenario 1 – each generator unit tested separately at 25% load for 0.5 
hour every two weeks per year and 1 hour each quarter, i.e. 17 hours per 
generator;  
Testing Scenario 2 - each generator unit tested separately at 100% load for 1.5 
hours, twice a year, i.e. 3 hours per generator; 
Full-building Test – all generators running simultaneously at 100% load for 2 
hours, once per year; and  
Emergency – all 11 generators operating at 100% load for 3 x 24 hours i.e. 72 
hours per generator.  
 
 
 
Air Quality  
 
Identified Pollutants 
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and Particulate Matter (PM10). 
Unburnt hydrocarbons may also be present and it is assumed that all 
hydrocarbon emissions will be in the form of benzene. The Applicant included 
modelling for emissions of Sulphur dioxide (SO
2), but we did not assess this as 
we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to ultra-low sulphur 
diesel, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. Carbon monoxide emissions 
were also included but we consider that these will also be negligible due to 
installation of modern highly efficient generators which allow for the complete 
combustion of the fuel.  