 
 Page 5 of 19  
S1.2, which entails a number of planned testing hours per generator below 50 per 
year. Therefore we do not consider that long-term impacts are significant and have 
restricted our assessment of the Applicants report  to the consideration of the 
predicted short-term impacts. 
 
The air dispersion modelling report included an assessment of the impact of 
hydrocarbons, using benzene as a surrogate. We do not consider hydrocarbon 
emission from back-up diesel engine to present a significant risk and so have not 
reviewed this assessment further.  
 
The application uses generic generator emissions data because at the time of the 
application, the operator has not confirmed which make/models to be installed. We 
have accepted the us e of this generic data, h owever we have included a pre-
operational condition (PO1) requiring the operator to submit details of the make, 
type and emissions profile of the installed generators and to re- submit the air 
quality assessment  should emissions be higher than those submitted in the 
application. Similarly we have included a pre-operational condition (PO3) requiring 
that the operator confirms that the maintenance scenarios used in the application  
remain appropriate for the make & model of the generators installed, and revises 
the air quality impact assessment should the generator manufacturer recommend 
an increase in the maintenance operation compared to that used in the application. 
 
 
Impact on Human Receptors 
The model assesses the effect of the proposal at a representative selection of 
human receptors in the vicinity of the proposed installation. Sixteen individual 
receptor locations were selected, including thirteen residential locations, a 
school, a village hall and a commercial centre. The direction of the prevailing 
winds (the wind-rose) has been used to select those receptors most likely to be 
affected, together with their distance from the installation. We agree that an 
appropriate selection of human receptors was used. 
 
Short-term Predicted NOx Impacts at Human Receptors 
For the maintenance operation scenarios at all but three receptor (R13, 15 & 16) 
the Process Contributions are less than 10% of the air quality standard and we 
consider this to be insignificant. For the other three receptors, the operation of 
the generators is not predicted to cause the short-term NO
2 Air Quality Standard 
to be exceeded, so is not considered to have a significant impact.  
 
For the emergency operation scenario, process contributions and therefore the 
predicted environmental concentrations are greater and the air quality modelling 
indicates a risk that the environment standards for short term NO2 will be 
exceeded. Whether or not the standard would actually be breached is dependent 
on meteorological conditions and how many hours the generator operated for. 
The air quality standard applies where there are 19 or more hourly mean 
instances where the NO2 concentration exceeds 200ug/m3 and the applicant has 