Permit number                              
EPR/LP3005BL 12 
Table S1.2 Operating techniques 
Description Parts Date  
Response to Schedule 5 
notice dated 06 August 
2021 
Response to Schedule 5 notice providing further information 
regarding the annual full-building test. 
Received 
13/08/2021 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The Operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power;  
• Selection of appropriate times for full-scale testing of the 
generators; 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
18 months after 
the date of 
issue of this 
permit 
 
Table S1.4  Pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measure 
PO1 At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a report for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing the make, type and emissions profile of the generators 
proposed to be installed. The report shall describe how the generators have been selected 
to minimise their effect on local air quality and provide a confirmation that their emissions 
are consistent with the risk envelope assessed at the application stage. Should the 
emissions to air of NOx, Particulates or Hydrocarbons from these generators be greater 
than those detailed in the application, the report shall include a revised air quality impact 
assessment.  
PO2 At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a report for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing the make, type and noise profile of the generators proposed 
to be installed. Should the sound levels emitted from these generators be greater than those 
detailed in the application, the report shall include a revised noise impact assessment. 
PO3 At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a report for approval by the 
Environment Agency confirming that the maintenance testing requirement of the generators 
proposed to be installed are consistent with the maintenance testing schedule stated at the 
application stage. Should the manufacturers recommend different maintenance testing 
scenarios than those detailed in the application, the report shall include a revised air quality 
impact assessment. Changes to the maintenance testing schedule, potentially leading to 
changes of the risk assessment conclusions, will require a variation of the permit. 
PO4 At least one month before the installation of any new generator, the operator shall submit a 
report for approval by the Environment Agency detailing how that generator will be 
commissioned into operation. This shall: 