 
 Page 2 of 19  
Key issues of the decision 
In reaching our decision to grant the permit we took into consideration the following 
matters: 
 
The Installation  
 
The site is part of a new datacentre which consists of a Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) 
activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 
2016 for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or 
more megawatts (MW). The combustion plant only operates during limited 
routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The emergency combustion 
activity comprises ten 6.8MWth and one 1.7MWth diesel fuelled standby 
generators which aggregate together to give a total of 69.5MWth. Each generator 
has an exhaust stack 15m in height.   
 
The installation is limited to the combustion plant and its ancillary works and 
excludes the datacentre itself. We accept that the generators comprise the 
‘technical unit’ of the installation but the datacentre itself is neither a listed activity 
in its own right, nor is there a ‘technical connection’ to the generators. As the 
generators are housed in a discreet area of the site, it is appropriate to limit the 
installation accordingly. The permit includes a map which defines the boundary of 
the installation.  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, 
in the event of a failure in the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the 
generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators will be used solely 
for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported 
from the installation.  
 
The datacentre will be developed in four phases as dictated by customer demand 
for its services with each phase requiring two 6.8MWth emergency generators; a 
further pair are held in reserve. The generators are sized to match the electrical 
requirement of the site’s eight main MV/LV transformers that supply the 
datacentre. The 1.7MWth generator is dedicated to the datacentre office 
accommodation.  
 
The generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule, with fortnightly 
testing at 25% load and biannual testing at 100% load.  This testing will be 
carried out sequentially to minimised air quality impact and totals about twenty 
hours operation per generator per year. In addition there may also be an annual 
full-building test of the generators at 100% load for up to two hours to ensure that 
the load-transfer, load management and facility monitoring systems operate 
correctly.  
 