 
 Page 18 of 19  
should consider whether sufficient mitigation measures are required such 
as the preparation of an Air Quality Emergency Action Plan.  
 
The consultee also identifies that noise from the installation may be of concern 
and notes that the applicant has provided a detailed noise assessment. In the 
case of a severe outage, even though site design and low likelihood of 
occurrence are stated as mitigating factors, residential receptors may be 
impacted during night hours.  
The consultee recommends that the regulator should be satisfied that the 
installation will not cause significant off-site noise impacts during periods of 
severe outage and that adequate mitigation is in place.  
 
Based on the H1 screening and detailed modelling provided, testing shows Air 
Quality Standards (AQS) were unlikely to be breached. However, in emergency 
scenarios there is the potential for the one hour AQS to be breached for nitrogen 
oxides. This risk is considered to be acceptable based on the fact that this is 
based on an extreme worst case scenario and that there has only been 2 or 3 
instances in the last nine years where the generators have been needed. Even if 
breaching the AQS for NO
x for a single hour does not constitute a breach then 
the consideration of the Acute Exposure Guidance Levels (AEGL) should be 
made. It is requested that a written action plan is produced for managing 
emissions during prolonged emergency operation. Based on the information 
provided risk to human health is considered low.
 
 
Summary of actions taken:  
We agree that emergency operation is extremely unlikely, but have imposed a 
permit restriction limiting the operation of the installation to 500 hours per year. 
We have also included the maintenance testing schedule to be followed by the 
operator in the operating techniques table of the permit (S1.2). 
Impacts on human receptors screened out for NO
2 and PM10 pollutants due to 
the unlikelihood of emergency power generation and low probability of short 
term exceedances for the pollutants. Our audit of the air quality modelling did 
not show any exceedance of the AEGLs at residential receptors and we required 
the operator to submit an isopleth map showing short-term NO2 concentrations 
around the installation. This indicated that the areas predicted to exceed the 
AEGL-1 levels were very small in extent and did not coincide with places that 
the public were likely to congregate. An improvement condition has been set 
requiring the operator to develop an Air Quality Management Plan. 
We have imposed standard noise conditions in the permit. We consider that 
these will be sufficient to control any noise issues arising from the installation. 
 
 
Response received from: South Oxfordshire & Vale of the White Horse 
District Councils – Environmental Health:  
The consultee noted that, subject to the implementation of the mitigation 
measures identified within the Noise Impact Assessment for Environmental 
Permit Application prepared by RPS (dated 12 January 2021), they had no 
Objections. 