 
 Page 11 of 19  
there is redundancy built into the design. While a smaller number of larger 
generators would be able to meet the power requirement, we agree that 
matching individual generator capacity to individual transformer size is 
appropriate in this case following the phased development of the data centre. 
The configuration of the electrical supply prevents the consideration of a greater 
number of smaller generators. Of the variety of generators considered, the 
efficiency of their engines was similar regardless of capacity.  
 
In order to minimise the need for emergency operation, the datacentre has two 
separate substation feeds, each capable of supporting 100% of the load. To 
address short term fluctuations, brown-outs or black-outs, the site has an 
uninterruptable power supply which can supply power until the generators 
operate.  
 
 
 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
 
There are no fugitive emissions to land or groundwater from the installation. The 
generators are located in containers over hard-standing or concrete flooring. 
Externally, the Site consists of new hard standing. Diesel, hazardous waste and 
hazardous materials storage is bunded and/or indoors, such that any source of 
potential contamination is prevented from discharge to land. 
 
The bulk fuel tank is fully bunded to 110% of its volume and includes a leak 
detection system. Individual day tanks are integrally-bunded with leak detection 
alarms and are under cover so not subject to rainwater incursion. The refuelling 
area is served by a full-retention interceptor connected into the site surface water 
drainage system.  
 
An accident management plan will be established prior to commencing operation 
of the installation. It will detail those actions required in the event of an 
emergency or accident/incident. This will include small incidents such as minor 
spills and leaks and complaints, as well as major incidents such as fire and major 
spills. In particular, a system for recording and allocating appropriate follow-up for 
accidents, incidents and non-conformances will be established prior to operation.  
 
Rainwater is kept separate from any areas in which there may be any potential 
contaminants. Surface water from exterior hardstanding areas is passed through 
an interceptor before entering the site drainage system where it joins rainwater 
from the roof areas. The surface water system discharge into the Moor Ditch via 
a system of balancing (attenuation) ponds 
. 
Drainage drawings are provided in the application. Details of the existing 
condition of the Site can be found in the Site Condition Report supplied with the 
application, which we have reviewed. 
  