 
 Page 10 of 19  
 
It is anticipated that the timescale of operation is likely to be short. They will only 
operate in this mode when the National Grid is off-line. The Operator has put in 
multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure 
including dual substation connection and management systems for preventing 
data centre failure. 
 
We consider that the commissioning of new generators poses particular risks to 
the environment. We have therefore included a pre-operational condition (PO4) 
requiring the submission of commissioning plan, which gives details of how the 
potential impact on the environment will be managed.   
 
Although the Permit contains no requirement for the on-going monitoring of the 
emissions from the generators, it is expected that such monitoring will be a future 
requirement. As the retro-fitting of suitable monitoring ports may be prohibitively 
expensive, we have included a pre-operational condition (PO5) requiring the 
operator to demonstrate that appropriate sample locations are included in the 
design of the generators   
 
 
Best Available Techniques 
 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the 
choice of generator, the particular configuration and plant sizing to meet the 
standby arrangement (N+1).  
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at 5% reference oxygen 
and normal conditions. The operator proposed to install generators meeting the 
2g TA-Luft standard but at the time of the application did not know the exact 
make/model of generator. We have included a pre-operational condition requiring 
the operator to submit details of the exact generator make/model they will install 
before operation and to submit a commissioning plan for each new generator. 
 
The operator has provided a stack height determination, identifying what height is 
required to provide adequate dispersion of the exhaust gas. The ADMS 5 model 
as above was used to simulate the effect of different stack heights, aiming to 
determine if there is a height above which no further benefit is gained. We 
required the operator to provide a detailed justification of the selected stack 
height. 
 
We required the operator to demonstrate that the number and size of the 
generators matches the requirements of the data centre. Each of the eight site 
MV/LV mains transformers is matched to a back-up generator of similar capacity, 
with two additional generators in reserve (N+2 configuration). This ensures that 