EPR/LP3303PR/A001 
Date issued: 26/02/2020  2 
The total installed capacity is 300.85 MWth. 
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose for generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from 
the installation. 
The diesel fuel is stored in individual double skinned day tanks adjacent to the generators. The day tanks are 
refilled from bulk storage tanks except in LD 10 where generators 1-2 have 2,500 litre day tanks and 
generators 3-5 have 19,600 litre day tanks, tanks which are filled directly from delivery tanke rs. 
Bulk storage tanks are provided as follows; 
Data centre LD 4, 2 tanks of 55,000 litres each. 
Data centre LD 5, 3 tanks of 66,000 litres each. 
Data centre LD 6, 3 tanks of 80,000 litres each. 
Data centre LD 7, 3 tanks of 81,000 litres each 
Data centre LD10, 3 tanks of 47,600 litres each. 
All tanks are fitted with overfill alarms and are housed within bunded enclosures equipped with leakage 
alarms. 
The site is covered in hardstanding and surface water gullies drain into an oil interceptor prior to dischar ge 
from site. There is no sewer connection related to the process. 
The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all the generators 
will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load at the site. All the generators are subject to a 
maintenance testing schedule.  
The Campus is located on the Slough Trading Estate, owned and managed by SEGRO plc. 
 Equinix operate five data centres on the trading estate, all of which are included within this permit.  
The surrounding area is a mix of industrial, commercial and residential uses. 
Air Quality  
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO 2) resulting from the combustion 
process on site. The Applicant has submitted an air dispersion modelli ng report which assesses the potential 
impact of emission of NO2 from the generators on local air quality.  
The data centre is not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and there is one AQMA within 
2km of the site. The Slough AQMA no 1 along th e M4  lies approximately 1.5 km from the site. The local 
authority were consulted and their response is given below in the Consultation section.  
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) audited the air dispersion modelling and report 
submitted with the permit application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
modelling were assessed. 
Maintenance testing 
The applicant has modelled continuous operation for the maintenance scenario which is a worst case 
approach. 
The P redicted Environmental Concentration (PEC)  exceeds 100% of the short -term human health and 
ecological Environmental Quality Standards (EQSs) at a number of receptor locations and therefore further 
investigation was required to look at the actual likelihood of the process resulting in a breach of the EQSs . 
The Applicant completed statistical analysis to determine the likelihood of the worst predicted emissions 
coinciding with the worst meteorological years, and subsequently causing a breach of the short -term EQSs. 
The approach followed the approach set out in the following report ‘ Diesel generator short term NO2 impact 