EPR/LP3303PR/A001 
Date issued: 26/02/2020  8 
Aspect considered Decision 
Permit conditions 
Use of conditions other than 
those from the template 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we do not need 
to impose conditions other than those in our permit template. 
Raw materials We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. 
We have imposed an improvement programme to ensure that the operator:  
Completes the programme of installing vertical exhausts in LD10 and carries 
out a feasibility study for vertical exhausts in LD6. 
Produces an Air Quality Management Plan 
Produces a report on the first year maintenance and operating regime 
identifying means of minimising emissions. 
Carries out an ambient monitoring exercise to verify the short term NO2 
concentrations at the site boundary. 
Submits a review of options for reducing short term NO2 impacts. 
Emission limits We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. 
Reporting 
 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is 
being operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to 
ensure that we are notified immediately in the instance that the site ever 
operated in emergency scenario mode. 
Operator competence 
Management system There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Financial competence There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially 
able to comply with the permit conditions.  
Growth Duty 
Section 108 Deregulation 
Act 2015 – Growth duty  
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and 
the guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to 
grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of 
regulators, these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to 
development or growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a 
factor that all specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the 
delivery of the protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental 
standards to be set for this operation in the body of the decision document 