EPR/LP3303PR/A001 
Date issued: 26/02/2020  3 
assessment’ dated 01/11/2016 to calculate the likelihood. The results show that there is a negligible risk of 
the process resulting in an exceedence of the EQSs and we agree with this conclusion.  
Improvement condition IC4 is specified in the permit which requires the operator to produce a report 
outlining the details of the annual maintenance operating regime following the first year of operation 
following permitting to validate the information provided with the permit application. 
Emergency scenario 
Although the site has operated for approximately 8 years without being required to operate in emergency 
mode, the air quality modelling does indicate that the emergency outage operating scenario could pose a 
risk to local air quality and identified receptors for short term NO 2. As a result, improvement condition IC6 
requires the Operator to submit a review of options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide 
emissions impacts for the grid failure emergency scenario. Improvement condition IC3 requires the 
production of an Air Quality Management Plan. 
The EA has specified that the operator shall  have a written action plan to manage the issue for prolonged 
emergency running of the plant (including sensitive receptors  list and mitigations, assessments and impacts 
evaluation against modelled risk conditions i.e. occurrence at periods of most concern in the year, possibly 
ambient air monitoring surveillance at very sensitive receptors) . This needs to be proportionate to the level of 
risk at the receptors. The operator is expected to work with the local authority to develop this plan to ensure 
local factors are fully considered. 
Improvement condition IC6  requires the Operator to submit a review of options for reducing pred icted short 
term nitrogen dioxide emissions impacts for the grid failure emergency scenario  – see section on BAT below 
for further information.  
We have also specified improvement condition IC 5 requiring the operator to determine the actual short term 
NOx concentrations at the site boundary through monitoring to contribute to the validation of conclusions 
reached in the air quality assessment within the application and to inform the air quality management plan.  
Permit conditions 
The permit  will include a m aximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity; and thereby emission limit values ELVs 
to air (and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within  the permit. Emergency hours’ operation 
includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data centre itself.  
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
without ELVs or associated monitoring under IED/MCPD. Though clearly the EA expects planned testing and 
generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations (s ubject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid  short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off -site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support . This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market , and importantly a clear way 
to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘Emergency plant’. 
Operations and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by 
minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The permit application must assess and provide evidence of actual reliability data for the local electricity grid 
distribution (including data centre internal electri cal design) for the EA to judge the realistic likelihood of the 
plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode (especially if emissions model so as 
to exceed short term air quality standards). 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) req uires both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 