EPR/LP3303PR/A001 
Date issued: 26/02/2020  7 
Aspect considered Decision 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect all known sites of 
nature conservation, landscape and heritage and/or protected species or 
habitats identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any sites of nature 
conservation, landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats 
identified. 
We have not consulted Natural England on the application. The decision was 
taken in accordance with our guidance. 
We have sent an Appendix 11 to Natural England for information only. The 
decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. An Appendix 4 was 
saved to our electronic document records management system (EDRM) for 
audit purposes only. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
The assessment shows that, applying the conservative criteria in our 
guidance on environmental risk assessment, all emissions may be 
categorised as environmentally insignificant with the exception of short term 
emissions of NO2 during testing and emergency operation. 
For the three testing scenarios, the Environment Agency audit agrees with 
the applicants conclusions.  
Predicted Environmental Concentrations (PECs) could exceed the ST NO2 
Environmental Standard (ES) at human receptors. The maximum number of 
hours of exceedances is 54 hours in a year. 
The probability of breaching the hourly NO2 ES is 0.75%, and therefore 
highly unlikely.  
NOx, nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition impacts are insignificant for 
protected conservation areas.  
With regards to emergency operations:  
Exceedances are unlikely provided emergency operations do not occur more 
than 18 hours per year.  
Exceedances of the AEGL-1 for NO2 over 10 minutes, 30 minutes and 1 hour 
periods at public exposure locations. Indicating an air quality incident level 
event under emergency operations.  
 Provided that power outages do not occur, exceedances are unlikely. In the 
last nine years none of the data centres have operated for emergency power 
generation.  
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 