EPR/LP3303PR/A001 
Date issued: 26/02/2020  5 
power supplies (UPSs). These buffer small fluctuations in electrical supply. If the UPS detects power failure 
or extended reduced power, the generators within the data centres affected will start automatically to begin 
generating sufficient electricity to match the load required by the data centre. The UPS can supply power for 
a minimum of six minutes but ordinarily the generators would kick in well before this time elapses.  
 
Protection of Groundwater 
There are no fugitive emissions to land or groundwater from any of the data centres on  the Campus. 
The generators are located in all cases over hard-standing. In the case of LD6 and LD7 the generators are 
located inside the data centre building on poured concrete flooring. 
 
Externally, each Site consists of hard standing in good condition both inside and outside of the buildings. 
Diesel, hazardous waste and hazardous materials storage is bunded and/or indoors, such that any source of 
potential contamination is prevented from discharge to land. 
 
Bulk fuel tanks are fully-bunded to 110% of their volume. The day tanks are double skinned. The majority are 
under cover and not subject to rainwater incursion. Those that are outside have a means of removing 
rainwater from the bund that does not penetrate the bund wall. Any oil and oily water will be removed using a 
vacuum pump, and recycled or disposed using an appropriate waste disposal company.  
 
Equinix has emergency response procedures in place in the event of a release of oil or diesel, processes for 
the planning for such eventualities and checklists to audit the response in case such an event occurs.  
Rainwater is kept separate from any areas in which there may be any potential contaminants and is allowed 
to run off to the surface water drainage serving the trading estate. 
 
Drainage drawings for each of the sites are provided in the application. 
Details of the existing condition of the Sites can be found in their respective Site Condition Reports,  
 
Environmental Risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the fac ility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
The assessment shows that, applying the conservative criteria in our guidance on environmental risk 
assessment, all emissions may be categorised as environmentally insignificant with the exception of s hort 
term emissions of NO2 during testing and emergency operation. 
For the three testing scenarios, the Environment Agency audit agrees with the applicants conclusions.   
Predicted Environmental Concentrations (PECs) could exceed the ST NO2 Environmental St andard (ES) at 
human receptors. The maximum number of hours of exceedances is 54 hours in a year. 
The probability of breaching the hourly NO2 ES is 0.75%, and therefore highly unlikely.  
NOx, nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition impacts are insignificant for protected conservation areas.  
With regards to emergency operations:  
Exceedances are unlikely provided emergency operations do not occur more than 18 hours per year.  
Exceedances of the AEGL-1 for NO2 over 10 minutes, 30 minutes and 1 hour periods at public exposure 
locations. Indicating an air quality incident level event under emergency operations.  
 Provided that power outages do not occur, exceedances are unlikely. In the last nine years none of the data 
centres have operated for emergency power generation. 