EPR/LP3303PR/A001 
Date issued: 26/02/2020  4 
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant t o minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA -Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m 3. 
The generator specifications on the site have emissions significantly higher than this. The BAT assessment 
attributed this to the generators being on site when it was purchased. We do acknowledge that it would not 
be practicable to require the operator at this stage to upgrade all plant to BAT standards. However upgrade 
of some plant could be considered as part of  the requirement to reduce short term nitrogen dioxide outlined 
in improvement condition IC6. 
 
Retrofit abatement techniques for existing installations for engine emissions such as selective catalytic 
reduction (SCR) would not normally be expected for stan dby plant to mitigate the emissions for 
standby/emergency operation. The Applicant confirmed that they will carry out further investigation into 
reductions in short term NOx and may consider options such as changes to operational control of the plant, 
modifications to the flue gas dispersion or installation of reduction equipment. Options such as this will need 
to be considered further through the response to improvement condition IC6. 
 
Noise 
The generators are either located inside buildings or within acou stic enclosures.  There are no proximate 
noise sensitive receptors and there have been no compla ints of noise during the time  the data centres have 
been in operation. 
 
The Environment Agency Qualitative Noise Screening Assessment Tool has been used and asse ssed that a 
Noise Impact Assessment and Noise Management Plan were not required.  
 
The permit contains a standard condition (3.4) which states: “ Emissions from the activities shall be free from 
noise and vibration at levels likely to cause pollution outside  the site, as perceived by an authorised officer of 
the Environment Agency ”. And “ if notified by the Environment Agency that the activities are giving rise to 
pollution outside the site due to noise and vibration, submit to the Environment Agency for appro val within 
the period specified, a noise and vibration management plan which identifies and minimises the risks of 
pollution from noise and vibration”. 
BAT 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby gene rators 
in data centres. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the particular 
configuration and plant sizing meeting the standby arrangement. 
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the imp acts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA -Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m 3. 
Some of the generator specifications on the site have emissions significantly higher than this. The BAT 
assessment attributed this to the generators being on site when it was purchased. We do acknowledge that it 
would not be practicable to require the operator at this stage to upgrade all plant to BAT standards. However 
upgrade of some plant could be considered as part of the requi rement to reduce short term nitrogen dioxide 
outlined in improvement condition IC6.  
 
Retrofit abatement techniques for existing installations for engine emissions such as selective catalytic 
reduction (SCR) would not normally be expected for standby plant  to mitigate the emissions for 
standby/emergency operation. The Applicant confirmed that they will carry out further investigation into 
reductions in short term NOx and may consider options such as changes to operational control of the plant, 
modifications to the flue gas dispersion or installation of reduction equipment. Options such as this will need 
to be considered further through the response to improvement condition IC6. The operator has committed to 
install 2g TA-Luft engines as part of any future replacement programme. 
The data centres each have 2 separate substation feeds in order that power supply has a good level of 
redundancy. The data centres are protected from short-term brown-outs or black-outs by uninterruptable 