 
                       Page 6 of 20 
Sulphur dioxide 10 ug/m3 Annual mean 
Nutrient Nitrogen Depends on location – 
see modelling report  
Annual mean 
Acidity deposition Depends on location – 
see modelling report 
Annual mean 
 
Maintenance testing 
 
Human Receptors: 
 
Short Term impacts 
applicants’ assessment 
 
Scenarios 1 and 2 – There were no predicted exceedances of any Environmental 
Standard (ES) for any pollutant assessed except for NO2 1-hour mean. The 
short-term emissions screened out alone where the process contribution (PC) 
was less than 10% of the significance threshold and in the case of AEGL-1 
emissions were below 940 ug/m3. 
 
For NO2, the report highlights that considering Scenario 1 and 2 separately, it is 
not possible that generator operation alone could cause an exceedance of the 
99.79th percentile 1-hour mean, as the operational events are below the 18 
permissible hours of exceedance that are allowed per year. 
 
Scenario 3- There were no predicted exceedances of the ES for CO 8-hour 
mean, SO2 15-minute mean, SO2 1-hour mean and AEGL-1. The short-term 
emissions screened out following the consideration of background 
concentrations, the Predicted Environmental Concentrations (PEC) were less 
than 100% of the significance threshold for SO2 and CO. The short-term 
emissions screened out alone where the process contribution (PC) was less than 
10% of the significance threshold for NO. In the case of AEGL-1 emissions were 
below 940 ug/m3. 
 
For NO2 1-hour mean, PM10 24-hour mean, SO2 24-hour mean and NO 1-hour 
mean exceedances were predicted. The report highlights that it is not possible 
that Scenario 3 alone could cause an exceedance of the NO2 99.79th percentile 
1-hour mean, as the operational events are below the 18 permissible hours of 
exceedance that are allowed each year. No discussion is included in the report 
for exceedances of PM10 24 hour mean and SO2 24-hour mean for this Scenario 
alone. We considered this as part of our audit. For NO 1- hour mean the 
applicant undertook statistical analysis and calculated the probability of an 
exceedance was 0.57% and can thus be considered highly unlikely. 
 
Environment Agency Audit 
 
Our audit of the modelling confirms that short term process contributions are 
unlikely to cause an exceedance at any of the receptors for any pollutant. 