 
                       Page 7 of 20 
 
We agree with the applicants’ conclusions that the number of hours of testing 
mean that it is not possible to exceed the 18 permissible hours with regards to 
the number of permissible exceedances of the NO2 1-hour mean. Considering 
Scenarios 1,2 and 3 separately. 
 
We undertook our own statistical analysis to calculate the probability of an 
exceedance for all pollutants which have short term assessment criteria. We 
concluded that there is unlikely to be an exceedance of the short term ES for 
NO2, NO, CO, SO2, PM10 and AEGL-1 for Scenarios 1, 2 and 3 separately. 
 
Long Term impacts 
 
Long term Process Contributions (PC) for PM10 and PM 2.5 are less than the 1% 
significance threshold of the ES at receptor locations for both pollutants and all 
scenarios. The long term NO2 PC is predicted to be 8.8% of the ES. The applicant 
has factored the annual PCs to reflect the annual operations. NO was not included 
in the original modelling report, we requested in Schedule 5  #3 that predictions 
were provided for short-term NO only, as our audit showed long-term NO screened 
out.  
 
As part of our audit for LT standards we have calculated PCs assuming 25 hours 
of operation over a year with only 8 generators operating simultaneously, which 
is an estimate of the cumulative impact of all 3 testing scenarios. All annual mean 
results were predicted to be below the relevant ES. 
 
Ecological Receptors: 
 
There are two Special Conservation Areas (SACs) within 10 km of the installation 
(Richmond Park SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC), four Local Nature Reserves 
(LNR) and fifteen Local Wildlife Sites (LWS). The applicant did not assess all of 
the LWS and LNR, we included all the sites as part of our audit. 
 
Long-term and short-term impacts were considered. The modelling considered air-
borne NOx. In addition to nitrogen deposition and acidification considering inputs 
from both Nitrogen and Sulphur Dioxide.  
 
The long-term emissions screen out alone as the process contribution (PC) was 
less than 1% of the significance threshold for acid deposition and nutrient nitrogen, 
and for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO x) and SO 2 the predicted environmental 
concentration (PEC) was less than 100%. Therefore, all pollutants screened out 
for long term criteria and no further assessment is necessary. 
 
The only short -term assessment required for ecological receptors is the 24 -hour 
mean for Oxides of Nitrogen (NO x). There were predicted to be exceedances at 
four Local Wildlife Sites (LWS) all other ecological sites screen out. The applicant 