 
                       Page 8 of 20 
concluded that exceedances are unlik ely due to the low number of operational 
hours. 
 
Our audit agreed with the applicant’s assessment and we agree that exceedances 
are unlikely for the NOx 24 hour mean due to the low number of operational hours. 
Also, exceedances were only predicted should operations coincide with worst-case 
operational hours. No further assessment is necessary. 
 
Emergency scenario 
 
The emergency scenario  (Scenario 4) that has been modelled is based upon all 
generators operating simultaneously for 2 hours followed by half the generators 
operating for 120 hours. Shutting down half the generators after 2 hours reflects 
what would happen in reality should there be an elec tricity outage. There is no 
basis set out in the modelling report as to why 122 hours has been chosen. We 
would expect an emergency scenario to be modelled for 72 hours as a worst-case 
scenario for this type of operation. As such 122 hours is likely to be an over 
estimation of emissions for the emergency scenario. 
 
Prolonged operation of the installation is not expected. Short term operation is 
more realistic for the reasons described below. 
 
We requested details of all instances when the generators have been used in an 
emergency scenario as a result of grid failure. The operator confirmed that the 
generators have not operated other than for maintenance purposes since the site 
became operational in 2011.  
 
This is an existing site and all generators installed do not meet TA-Luft 2g or Tier 
2 USEPA emissions standards. The stacks are also below the height of the 
surrounding buildings. The diesel generators installed are currently not in line 
with BAT, an improvement condition has been included requiring the operator to 
explore potential options to reduce NOx emissions to meet BAT standards. 
 
An emergency outage is an event that will be for a number of hours. Therefore, 
only short-term assessment criteria need to be considered.  
 
Human Receptors: 
 
For Scenario 4, the applicant predicts exceedances of the NO2 1-hour mean. 
 
For NO2 1-hour mean the operator undertook statistical analysis to predict the 
probability of an exceedance occurring over the 122 hours of operation. The 
probability of exceeding the ES more than the 18 allowable exceedances is 
100% and the probability of more than 64 exceedances is 0.001% (We do not 
agree with this approach and have undertaken our own assessment of risk based 
on the number of operational hours required for the risk of an exceedance to be 
5% and 1%). 