 
                       Page 18 of 20 
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
The Director of Public Health was also consulted however no response was 
received. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from: Local Authority - Environmental Health - Sutton Council 
Brief summary of issues raised: The response confirmed that they are not 
currently investigating any noise or pollution complaints in relation to the site and 
that no enforcement action is pending.  
Summary of actions taken: no action required. 
 
Response received from: National Grid 
Brief summary of issues raised: A drawing was provided showing the locations of 
National grid overhead lines near to the installation. They also provided guidance 