 
                       Page 4 of 20 
We do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
proposed installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the 
fuel to ultra-low sulphur diesel, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. 
 
The applicant has confirmed that the generators will be operating at 100% load 
during an emergency scenario in the event of the loss of power from the National 
Grid. The emission concentrations used in the air quality modelling were based 
upon the manufactures data sheets and were 3280mg/m3 for 3 Perkins 
4012TAG2A engines and 5100 mg/m3 for the 28 Perkins 401246TWG3A engines 
(both at 273 K, 101 kPa, dry and 5% O2). The emissions are not in line with the 
TA-Luft 2g or Tier 2 USEPA emissions standards. This is discussed in detail in 
the BAT section of this document. 
 
Emissions data sheets for the engines have been provided by the applicant, 
which we consider as being representative of the emissions from the engines. 
The applicant has confirmed that the engine emissions presented are based on 
100% engine loading, which reflects how the engines are used in an emergency 
scenario. Therefore, the emissions concentrations used in the modelling are 
appropriate.   
 
We audited the air dispersion modelling and report submitted with the permit 
application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
modelling were assessed. We agreed with the applicant’s conclusions that 
predicted levels for the three testing regimes and emergency operations were 
unlikely to cause an exceedance of the Environmental Standard (ES) for human 
receptors for NO2, NO, PM10, PM2.5, SO2 and CO and ecological receptors for 
NOx and SO2.  
 
Four modelling scenarios were run to represent the operations at the installation. 
Scenarios 1, 2 and 3 assess emissions from generator run times during routine 
testing and maintenance operations. Scenario 3 represents an emergency power 
outage where there is loss of power from the National Grid or from an internal 
power supply failure.  
 
• Scenario 1: Monthly Testing – each generator runs for 5 minutes i.e., 
within each data hall, each generator is tested simultaneously, then the 
generators within the next data hall are tested, and so on. 
• Scenario 2: Quarterly Testing – each generator runs for 15 minutes with 
sequential data hall testing. 
• Scenario 3: Annual Load Bank Test – each generator runs for 1 hour with 
sequential data hall testing. 
• Scenario 4: Emergency Operation – all generators running for 2 hours 
followed by half of the generators in each data hall running for 5 days. The 
applicant explains that only 16 of the generators are needed to meet the 
site load during emergency operations, therefore, 15 generators would be 
switched off after the first two hours of a prolonged Scenario 4. 
 