 
                       Page 9 of 20 
 
As part of the applicants third modelling assessment the operator assessed the 
emissions against short term NO and AEGL-1. The applicant predicted 
exceedances of short term NO and AEGL-1 at eight receptors during worst case 
meteorological conditions. The applicant undertook statistical analysis to predict 
the probability of an exceedance occurring. They predicted a likelihood of 20.6% 
for AEGL-1 and 15.4% for short term NO, indicating the potential for an 
exceedance.  
 
Our audit agrees with the operators conclusions that exceedances of short term 
NO2, 1-hour mean NO and AEGL-1 are likely should Scenario 4 coincide with the 
worst-case meteorological conditions. Although we agree with the operators 
conclusions we are not able to agree with the numerical values.   
 
However, overall we would still consider exceedances as being unlikely due to 
the emergency scenario being a highly unlikely event to occur. As explained 
previously the generators have never been used in an emergency situation since 
they were commissioned. In addition, based on our assessment, exceedances 
against the aforementioned ES are only likely if operations last longer than 1 
hour. If the generators were ever to operate, short term operation is more likely. 
Therefore, on this basis the scenario can be considered acceptable and no 
further assessment is necessary. 
 
Exceedances are also predicted of SO2 15-minute mean and PM10 24-hour mean, 
based on the number of exceedances predicted it would not be possible to 
exceed the 35 allowable 15-minute/daily exceedances that are allowed for both 
pollutants respectively over 122 hours of operation.  
 
Ecological Receptors: 
 
The operator predicts exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level of 75 
µg/m3 at all ecological sites including Wimbledon Common SAC and Richmond 
Park SAC. This would require an emergency scenario coinciding with the worst-
case meteorology that was used within the modelling. This scenario is unlikely. 
As part of our audit, we were unable to rule out exceedances of the daily NOx 
during scenarios 3 and 4 should these coincide with worst-case meteorological 
conditions. However, we agree with the applicant that exceedances are unlikely 
based on the low number of operational hours and due to there being no historic 
operation of the generators in an emergency since the generators were first 
commissioned.   
 
Permit conditions  
 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby 
operational limit’ for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits 
of the combustion activity. This operational limit applies to the installation as a 