 
                       Page 10 of 20 
whole. As operations are restricted to 500 hours, emission limit values (ELVs) to 
air are not required within the permit.  
 
The Environment Agency expects the number of and duration of planned testing 
and generator operations to be minimised as much as possible (subject to client 
requirements). The BAT expectation is that individual generator testing is below 
50 hours/annum which is drawn from the MCPD specified generator guidance. In 
this instance the operator is maintaining and testing each generator for a total of 
3 hours a year (based on email attachment provided 12/11/2021). This is in line 
with BAT and below the level at which ELVs would be needed. 
 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power 
operation’ such as demand side response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term 
operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and Frequency 
Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to 
differentiate data centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the 
balancing market and importantly provide a clear way to demonstrate 
minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air 
quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, phasing generators into 
subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and 
most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
As explained previously in the Air Quality section of this document, under the 
heading Emergency Scenario, the risk of the generators needing to operate for a 
prolonged period of time is low.  
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any 
electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require both 
annual reporting and immediate notification to the Environment Agency. 
 
Noise 
The site will only run the engines regularly as part of the testing regime described 
earlier, with each engine run for 3 hours per year. This occurs during daytime 
hours both during weekdays for monthly and quarterly testing and the weekends 
for the Annual Load Bank test, and is not classed as part of normal operations.  
Prolonged operation will only occur in an emergency situation where the National 
Grid supply is lost. The operator has provided details of historical outages at this 
installation. There have been no outages as a result of the loss of power from the 
National Grid since the site began operations as a data centre in 2011. 
Therefore, the potential for prolonged noise is also considered to be very low. 
 
An assessment of the potential impact of noise has been undertaken in the 
Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA). The document outlines that in addition to 