 
                       Page 19 of 20 
for when works are conducted near such assets. A National Grid Engineer has 
reviewed the proposal and confirmed that there is no objection to the application.  
Summary of actions taken: no action required. 
 
Response received from: Public Health England (now the UK Health Security 
Agency). 
Brief summary of issues raised: The operator identified the main emissions of 
concern from the generators as nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and 
particulates. They identify that there are 5 separate power supplies and therefore, 
the risk of an outage across the whole site is unlikely. They note that an air 
quality modelling assessment has been submitted and that it does not consider 
an emergency outage scenario. They note that there are exceedances of the 
NO2 1 hour-mean, PM10 24 hour-mean and SO2 24 hour-mean. They note that 
this has the potential for health impacts. There is the potential for NO2 to exceed 
high and very high pollution bands of DEFRA air quality index. They identify that 
the installation is within an Air Quality Management Area and that the 
considerations of local authority should be taken into account. They recommend 
additional mitigation measures are needed to prevent exceedances of air quality 
thresholds, that boundary monitoring is included and that testing is only 
undertaken in favourable weather conditions. The potential for noise is discussed 
and that appropriate measures should be in place. There is no accident 
management plan included with the application.  
Summary of actions taken: All of the main emissions as identified by PHE have 
been assessed in the air quality assessment. We agree that the chance of all 
generators operating is unlikely. A revised air quality modelling report was 
submitted on 19/09/22 which included an emergency scenario, we have audited 
this report and agree with its conclusions. Where the modelling reports show any 
exceedances the applicant/the EA has undertaken statistical analysis to 
determine the probability of an exceedance occurring. For all pollutants and 
assessment criteria the risk is low. When making this conclusion we also took 
into account that an exceedance would need to coincide with the worst-case 
meteorological data and that there has been no historic operation of the 
generators during an electrical outage since the site became operational in 2011. 
It is also on this basis that we do not consider the need for any mitigation 
measures to be installed or that any other stipulations are put in place e.g. 
regarding weather conditions. However, we have included improvement 
conditions in the permit requesting that the operator should consider potential 
options to reduce emissions/ improve dispersion in order to improve their 
environmental performance. This is primarily to bring the installation in line with 
BAT emission standards.  
We consulted with the local authority as part of the consultation process. They 
did not raise any concerns regarding the Air Quality Management Area. We have 