 
                       Page 12 of 20 
fail all of the generators would start with generators turned off manually to meet 
the data centre load and not exceed it. In the event that there is the loss of power 
across the whole site all generators would start. In a prolonged outage around 
half of the generators would be turned off after a period of 2 hours to match the 
load requirements of the data centre. Such a loss of power would require an 
outage at the 132kVa substation level. 
 
Protection of Groundwater 
 
There are no intentional emissions to land or groundwater from the data centre. 
The generators are located in containers over hard standing. All operational 
areas, roads and external areas are on hard standing. Raw materials used on the 
installation are Diesel fuel. Diesel fuel is stored in bunded bulk storage tanks and 
also within the generator day tanks which are housed in the containers. 
Therefore, the risk of any source of potential contamination discharging to land is 
minimised. No wastes are stored on site. Waste oil is removed off-site for 
disposal following any maintenance.  
 
The diesel belly tanks are designed to comply with the Oil Storage Regulations 
2001. Suitable measures are in place with regards to fuel containment which 
include: 
 
• The bulk diesel storage tanks are fully-bunded with an integral bund 
providing 110% of the volume of the tank.  
• The oil interceptor has a capacity of 5,000 litres providing some tertiary 
containment for the site. Surrounding gullies and concrete areas provides 
further limited tertiary storage. 
• All surface water goes via the oil interceptor before being discharged. The 
oil interceptor is fitted with a shut off valve which is closed in the event of a 
spillage to isolate any diesel which has escaped form the tanks/pipework 
on the installation. 
• The only fuel pipework on site is that which connects the belly tanks to the 
generator day tanks. No other distribution pipe work is required. 
• The bulk diesel storage tanks are fitted with a leak detection system which 
is monitored continuously be the Building Maintenance System (BMS) and 
an alarm would sound in the event of a leak. 
• Fuel filling points remain locked when not in use and have drip trays to 
capture any leaks. 
• High and low level alarms are fitted to the bulk diesel storage tanks to 
prevent overfilling of the tanks. 
• Spill Kits are available in the plant areas. Staff have been fully trained in 
spill response procedures and the use of personal protective equipment 
(PPE). 
• The site engineering team undertake a twice weekly visual inspection of 
the bulk diesel storage tanks. 
• A third-party contractor undertakes a monthly inspection of the generators, 
their day tanks and pipework in the generator housing. A monthly 
inspection document is completed and kept on site. 
 