 
                       Page 16 of 20 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with 
the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate 
techniques for the facility. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 
in the environmental permit. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit 
values in line with technical guidance, or by imposing a limit to the operational 
hours through the permit conditions, we are minimising emissions to air. This will 
aid the delivery of national air quality targets. We do not consider that we need to 
include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. 
We have included an improvement programme to ensure that: 
• IC1 - Short term nitrogen dioxide concentrations are minimised during 
emergency operations. We have requested that an Air Quality 
Management Plan is produced. This plan which will detail how the 
generators will be used during emergency operation and is to be produced 
jointly with the Local Authority. 
• IC2 – We have set this improvement condition as the generator emissions 
are not in accordance with BAT emissions standards. The operator should 
consider potential options to reduce emissions/improve dispersion in order 
to improve the environmental performance of the engines. In addition, our 
assessment has identified that the generators would only need to operator 
for an hour before there would be exceedances of the NO2 1 hour-mean. A 
reduction in emissions/improvement in dispersion should be implemented 
to minimise the impacts in the event of prolonged generator operation, 
even though this is an unlikely event.  
• IC3 – This is an existing site that has been operating since 2011 and is 
only now being brought into regulation. As a result we were not consulted 
with regards to the containment systems installation and the containment 
systems have been in place for around 11 years. Therefore, the 
containment infrastructure needs to be reviewed so that we can establish 
a baseline as to its condition and whether it complies with the expected 
standards. Any deficiencies will be addressed based on an agreed 
improvement programme to agreed timescales. 