 
Permit number            
EPR/NP3735JX 12 
 
Table S1.2 Operating techniques 
Description Parts Date Received 
Exposure Guidance Limits (AEGLs) and Nitrogen Monoxide 
(NO).  
 
Maintenance testing hours specified in Modelling Report 
Addendum: ‘Schedule 5 Response Report, March 2022, 
Bureau Veritas.’ 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at 
individual receptors;  
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit  
the duration of an outage event is limited to less than 50 hours 
as far as possible; 
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
Within 6 months from 
the date of issue of 
the permit 
EPR/NP3735JX/A001 
IC2 The operator shall submit a plan to reduce the predicted short term 
nitrogen dioxide (NOx) emissions impacts during the maintenance, 
testing and emergency operations of the standby generators. This shall 
include but is not limited to:  
• A feasibility study including cost benefit analysis for upgrades 
or other changes to infrastructure or operational regimes on site 
that could reduce emissions of NOx and increase dispersion; 
• Use of the above information to propose appropriate changes, 
including but not limited to an assessment of the following 
options: changes to stack configuration to enhance dispersion 
(e.g. vertical emission points and increased stack heights); 
amending the testing schedule to reduce the daily emissions 
from the testing operations; upgrading the standby engines to 
reduce emissions or installing newer ones with lower emissions 
of NOx; installing NOx abatement. If changes in the height of 
the stacks are demonstrated to be effective, but are not 
deemed feasible due to local planning restrictions, the Operator 
shall provide evidence of the engagement carried out with the 
Local Authority planning department, in support of this 
conclusion, and propose other emission reduction options. 
• The Operator shall submit an updated air dispersion modelling 
study demonstrating how the proposed option(s), selected 
among those assessed, result in reduced levels of oxides of 
Within 9 months from 
the date of issue of 
the permit 
EPR/NP3735JX/A001 