 
Permit number            
EPR/NP3735JX 2 
 
Croydon Data Centre (LW13)  
Permit number EPR/NP3735JX 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes back-up generation capacity, a Schedule 1 Part 
A(1) 1.1 activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a 
rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). The site is located on an Industrial Estate which is adjacent 
to Beddington Water Treatment Plant. The National Grid Reference for the site is TQ 29694 66752. The site is 
approximately 1.2 hectares in size. The surrounding area is primarily industrial with some residential uses. 
 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The 
emergency combustion activity comprises 31 diesel fuelled standby generators. The thermal input of the 
generators is as follows: 28 are 3.5 MWth and 3 are 3.7 MWth. The aggregated total combustion capacity on 
site is 109.1 MWth. All plant was installed between 2007 and 2009 with the site beginning operations as a data 
centre in 2011. This is before December 2018, they are therefore classed as ‘existing plant’ under the Medium 
Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD).  
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in the 
electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators will be 
used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. The data centre consists of 5 data halls (DH1 – DH5). There are a total of 7 electricity feeds into the 
data centre, which are organised as follows: 2 feeds to DH1, 2 feeds to DH2 and DH3, 2 feeds to DH4 and DH5 
and one feed to the landlord area (office, meeting room, reception and kitchen area). Each of the 7 electricity 
feeds can be run on either an A or B power input. The generators are organised and controlled to mimic this 
power input set up. If one of the 2 feeds fail all of the generators would start with generators turned off manually 
to meet the data centre load and not exceed it. In the event that there is the loss of power across the whole site 
all generators would start. In a prolonged outage around half of the generators would be turned off after a period 
of 2 hours to match the load requirements of the data centre. Such a loss of power would require an outage at 
the 132kVa substation level. All the generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule.  
 
The generators run on diesel fuel which is stored in 17 above ground bulk storage tanks. The diesel from the 
bulk storage tanks is piped to the day tanks that are located within each generator container. There are 3 x 
14,000 litre tanks, 6 x 25,500 litre tanks, and 8 x 22,000 litre tanks, each tank has an integral bund of 110% 
capacity. The site is covered in concrete hardstanding. The surface drainage system directs run -off into an oil 
interceptor prior to discharge from site to the municipal combined sewer. The oil interceptor has a capacity of 
5,000 litres, which includes a manual shut off vale to prevent any surface water discharge off site should this be 
necessary. 
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide. 
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number. 
 
 