 
                       Page 11 of 20 
the limited hours of operation which will control potential for noise, the generators 
are located in acoustic housing and the site has a 4.5m acoustic wall along the 
northern and western boundary of the site. The ERA concludes that the risk of 
noise is low. We agree with this conclusion and that the proposed measures are 
sufficient to control any noise arising from the installation.  
 
BAT 
 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators. However, we requested a BAT assessment detailing the 
choice of engine, the particular configuration and plant sizing to meet the standby 
arrangement (e.g. 2n).  
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3. None of the generators 
meet either of these standards due to them being fitted and installed outside of a 
regulatory regime between 2007 – 2009. In addition, the document Data Centre 
FAQ Headline Approach which sets out the above BAT standards had not been 
written at the time the generators were being installed.  
 
The operator will need to look at potential options to reduce NOx emissions to 
move towards meeting these standards. An Improvement Condition has been 
included in the permit to move towards achieving this.  
 
The data centre comprises a series of data halls with a number of generators 
dedicated to each data hall. The number and size of the generators matches the 
demand requirements of each suite. The site operates to an 2n standby 
arrangement, where n is the load requirement of the data centre. In other words 
there are twice the number of generators that the site needs. 
 
The generators were already installed when the operator purchased the site. 
Choices regarding the size and configuration of the plant have already been 
made. It is not possible to provide a justification for the decisions that were made 
as these were not the operators own. However, the use of a larger number of 
smaller generators is typical for datacentres like this and allows for flexibility with 
regards to maintenance and assigning power loads to meet requirements for a 
number of separate data halls. Therefore, it is considered that a greater number 
of small scale generators is BAT. 
 
In order to minimise the need for emergency operation, there are a total of 7 
electricity feeds into the data centre, which are organised as follows: 2 feeds to 
DH1, 2 feeds to DH2 and DH3, 2 feeds to DH4 and DH5 and one feed to the 
landlord area (office, meeting room, reception and kitchen area). Each of the 7 
electricity feeds can be run on either an A or B power input. The generators are 
organised and controlled to mimic this power input set up. If one of the 2 feeds 