EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  9 
5. Emissions management 
Retrofitting abatement techniques for existing installations for engine emissions such as selective catalytic 
reduction (SCR) would not normally be expected for standby plant to mitigate the emissions for 
standby/emergency operation. The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise 
the impacts of emissions to air (NOx) is 2g TA -Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission 
concentration of 2000mg/m3. 
 
To ensure emissions are minimised the Applicant has demonstrated that: 
 Multiple measures are in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure including multiple 
grid connection and management systems for preventing data centre failure (see section 6 on 
uptime). 
 Ark Date Centres Limited operates the management systems aligned and certified to the following 
standards; 
 ISO 9001:2015 – Quality Management System 
 ISO 27001: 2013 – Information Security Management System 
 ISO 22301:2012 – Business Continuity Management System 
 ISO 14001:2015 – Environmental Management System 
 ISO 50001:2011 – Energy Management System 
 The site has moved from using a low voltage (LV) standby generating solution to a high voltage (HV) 
standby generating solution. This has resulted in a 31% reduction in installed generation capacity. 
This reduction in capacity leads, by its nature, to reduced fuel storage requirements, along with 
reduced air and noise pollution potential. 
 In 10 years of operation there has been no grid event that has caused all the standby generators to 
start simultaneously. Over the same period there has been one on site power failure, during a 
thunder storm that impacted Module 1 of P1 causing the 3 standby generators associated with this 
module to start.  
Further to this the Environment Agency has specified in IC 1 that the Operator shall have a written air quality 
action plan to manage the prolonged emergency running of the plant. This will include a sensitive receptors 
list, rev iew of mitigation and evaluation against modelled risk co nditions. The action plan will include 
measures proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The Operator is expected to work with the local 
authority to develop this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered. 
6. Uptime 
In addition to the above ISO standards and best practice, Ark Data Centres Limited operate in line with the 
principles of the Uptime Institute, an industry assessment of the maintenance and operation of Data Centres.   
They are deployed to meet the requirements of a Tier III concurrently maintainable facility (as defined by the 
Uptime Institute). 
With regards to security, the site is accredited to ISO27001, the information security management system 
standard. This is to help ensure that the site maintains its assets in a manner to reduce the risk of unplanned 
downtime, and subsequent standby generator operation, due to issues such as security breaches. The site 
also has security infrastructure and a 24-hour on-site security presence. 
The operator will put multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of failure including: 
 Five supplies to Spring Park are operated as two concurrently maintainable supply systems. 
 Data centres SQ17, P1 and P2 are supplied via two 40MVA supplies both (A and B) from the SEE 
Norrington Primary Substation, capable of supplying 40MVA on a single supply. This means that the 
emergency standby generator will only start if both the grid supplies fail. 
 Data centres P3 and P4 are supplied via three 24MVA supplies (A, B and C) from SSE Norrington 
primary substation, capable of supplying 48MVA via any two of the three supplies. The standby 
generator will only start if two of the three grid supplies fail. 
 For all emergency generators to start simultaneously three of the five supplies to site need to fail 
simultaneously. 