EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  12 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The permit application must assess and provide evidence of actual reliability data for the local electricity grid 
distribution (including data centre internal electrical design) for the Environment Agency to judge the realistic 
likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode (especially if 
emissions modelled have the potential to exceed short term air quality standards). 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) require both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
9. Noise 
The Applicant has identified that the risk of impact from noise is low and that measures are in place to 
minimise noise. These include  
 Large backup electricity generators associated with main power failure for all buildings are installed 
at ground level, within individual high performance acoustically attenuated enclosures and with 
silenced exhausts.  
 The engines also undergo regular maintenance to minimise noise. 
 Prolonged operation will only occur in an emergency situation where the National Grid supply is lost. 
This however is deemed a low risk and the Applicant has taken measures as described in this 
document to reduce the potential for grid failure. The potential for prolonged noise is therefore 
considered to be low. 
9.1 Applicant’s noise assessment 
The applicant assessed the following scenarios. 
‘Normal Operation’ - assesses acoustic impact of plant which will normally be running, such us the internal 
plant rooms with associated ventilation inlet and outlet louvers at the buildings’ facades. 
The ‘Emergency Backup’ scenario assesses the acoustic impact of the extremely unlikely event of roof-
mounted air cooled condensing units associated with emergency cooling system operation and ground level 
backup electricity generators operation associated with main power failure occurring simultaneously. 
9.2 Applicant’s conclusions  
The Applicant’s report concluded that the ‘normal operations’ are not expected to have an adverse noise 
impact at the nearest and most exposed noise-sensitive receptors, when assessed in accordance with 
BS4142:2014. 
The Applicant’s report concluded that ‘combined backup and emergency operation’ would have a significant 
adverse noise impact when assessed in accordance with BS4142:2014. However, taking into account the 
emergency and very occasional occurrence of this scenario, it is considered appropriate to extend the 
Assessment to comply with BS8233:2014/WHO Guidelines. This Assessment has found that in the worst-
case scenario of all emergency plant from all buildings operating at the same time, the BS8233:2014/WHO 
Guidelines at external amenity areas are generally achieved. The Indoor Ambient Noise Levels targets are 
slightly exceeded at some properties, but they would remain within the +5 dB at which ‘reasonable’ acoustic 
conditions can be expected. Only at one detached property to the south is the target for good acoustic 
conditions exceeded by a larger margin (+6 dB), which is only +1 dB above the ‘reasonable’ acoustic 
conditions target.  
Based on the absolute worst-case scenario assessed (the extremely unlikely event of all emergency cooling 
plant and all standby generators operating at the same time), and the minimal exceedance of the 
WHO/S8233 targets in one case, their assessment concluded that the ‘emergency operation’ of the plant will 
not produce a significant adverse noise effect at the nearest sensitive receptors. 
 
 