EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  15 
Aspect considered Decision 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
The following operational controls and conditions have been placed on the 
permit to protect the following SAC and SSSI and local wildlife sites:  
 Restrictions on operational hours (emergency plant) 
 Improvement conditions (see key issues) 
We have consulted Natural England on our Habitats Regulations and SSSI 
assessments, and taken their comments into account in the permitting 
decision. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory, however we have included 
improvement conditions to ensure additional considerations of risk relating to 
emissions to air are considered on an ongoing basis. 
See key issues section above. 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for 
emissions that do not 
screen out as insignificant 
Emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) cannot be screened out as insignificant. 
We have assessed whether the proposed techniques are BAT. 
We agree with the applicant that the use of diesel generators to supply power 
to site in the event of National Grid outage is BAT when compared with 
alternative power generation techniques (refer to key issues section). 
Operating techniques for 
emissions that screen out 
as insignificant. 
Emissions of PM10, CO, CH2O, and SO2 have been screened out as 
insignificant, and so we agree that the applicant’s proposed techniques are 
BAT for the installation. 
We consider that the emission limits included in the installation permit reflect 
the BAT for the sector. 
Permit conditions 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. 
See key issues 
We have not inserted improvement conditions relating to further NOx and 
BAT assessment in this case because we are satisfied: 