EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  10 
 
7. Protection of groundwater through containment measures 
The Ark distributed fuel storage system adopted by the Applicant has a number of benefits over the more 
traditional bulk storage systems: 
 It stores some 30% less fuel than equivalent bulk storage systems for 72 hours of operating 
resilience. 
 As the fuel is deployed in smaller segregated units that are only connected “if required”, fuel 
contamination or major leaks are confined to single small tanks rather than a large one.  This 
significantly reduces the risk of contamination and leakage risks further. 
7.1 Fuel Containment 
 Fuel is deplo yed i n small  segregated units, e ach generator set has a double skinned belly tank 
manufactured to BS 799: Part 5 Type J (2010) and meets all requirements as s et out in Oil Storage 
Regulations (2001).  
 Diesel tanks are sized to meet the operating requirement of the standby generator . They have 
secondary containment in the form of an outer tank which  is sized to hold the volume of the inner 
tank (brimful) plus 20%.  
 All fuel fill points are bunded.  
 Each set of three tanks is interconnected such that they can supply all three standby generators, at 
full load for 72 hours. Where belly tanks are interconnected (SQ17, P1 and P2) , the pipework is 
‘Pipe-in-Pipe’ with i solation valves contained within an enclosure complete with leak detection 
located on each tank.  
 Tanks are kept isolated unless fuel needs to be transferred between tanks to minimise leaks via 
interconnecting pipework. 
 The tanks contain a leak detection f loat switch that is linked to the tank a larm located within the fill 
point cabinet. The alarm in the fill point cabinet is fed back to the generator controller and then into 
the facility Energy Monitoring System. 
 Each set of generators is housed within bun ded containers with sufficient capacity to contain a 
complete loss of fluids held within the generator/engine.  
 The generator and diesel tanks are served by a preventative maintenance programme and spill 
prevention kits are located in the plant areas. Beca use of the nature of the site there is sufficient 
security to manage access, and vehicle movements are minimal. 
 Spill Kits are distributed at every set of generators, minimum 1 wheelie bin kit for every two 
generators. 
7.2 Surfacing, drainage tertiary containment 
Surface water is managed at the site through number of different methods including discharge to Westwells 
Road public sewer, soakaways and an infiltration pond.  
 Runoff from the roofs of all four data centre buildings and external areas to P1, P3 and P4 is 
disposed of through attenuation and soakaway.  
 Hard standing areas surrounding P2 drain to Westwells Road public sewer via petrol interceptor. 
 Hard standing area surrounding standby generation plant will connect to Westwells Road public 
sewer via petrol interceptor. 
 The Applicant has confirmed that they have oil interceptors installed on the drainage system 
surrounding the fuel tank/fill points.  