EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  4 
 
Event 1 
 Concentrations are below the relevant AEGLs. As such, predicted effects at all off-site receptors 
from Event 1 are unlikely to cause a notable discomfort, irritation, or certain asymptomatic non-
sensory effects. 
 Concentrations of NO2 are below the AEGL 1-hour (60min). As such, predicted effects at all 
receptors from Event 1 are unlikely to cause a notable discomfort, irritation, or certain asymptomatic 
non-sensory effects. 
Event 2 
 Concentrations are below the relevant AEGLs. As such, predicted effects at all off-site receptors 
from Event 2 are unlikely to cause a notable discomfort, irritation, or certain asymptomatic non-
sensory effects. 
 Concentrations are below the relevant 1-hour AEGL. As such, predicted effects at all receptors from 
Event 2 are unlikely to cause a notable discomfort, irritation, or certain asymptomatic non-sensory 
effects. 
Event 3 
 Predicted 1-hour NO2 concentrations for Event 3 are likely to meet the Environmental Quality 
Standard (EQS) at all receptor locations should the generators operate for a 5-day period in an 
emergency.  
 The maximum rolling 8 hour mean for CH2O exceeds the EQS at all receptor locations considered 
under Event 3 conditions, these impacts will be short-lived and not long lasting. 
 Concentrations of NO2, CO and CH2O are below the AEGL 1-hour. As such, predicted effects at all 
receptors from Event 3 are unlikely to cause a notable discomfort, irritation, or certain asymptomatic 
non-sensory effects. 
 The Applicant confirmed the maximum number of hours these generators have been used in an 
emergency over the last 10 years, is 4 hours. As such they concluded that the modelling of 120 
hours is conservative. If all generators run at 100% load the impacts would remain ‘insignificant’ after 
19 hours of continuous running.  
 
4.1.2 Environment Agency dispersion modelling assessment 
We have audited the Applicant’s air dispersion modelling and, based on the following, we are a satisfied that 
the proposed emergency generator operating scenarios under Events 1,  2 and 3 are unlikely to resu lt in an 
exceedance of the long -term and short -term environmental standards at sensitive human health receptor 
locations. 
4.1.2.1 Environment Agency Audit of Applicant’s modelling 
The A pplicant submitted a revised air dispersion modelling report (August 20 19) and based on revised 
emission rates the Applicant  has presented their process contributions (PCs) at discrete receptors against 
AEGLs for Event 1,2 and  3, and t he short -term PCs against  relevant Environmental Standards  (ES) for 
Event 3.  
Based on these updated predictions, we observed that: 
 For Event 1 and 2, they have not provided predictions against the short -term 99.79th percentile ES 
for NO2. 
 For Event 1, 2 and 3, the Applicant predicts no exceedances of the AEGLs for NO 2, CO, and CH 2O 
at their discrete receptor locations. 