EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  8 
 
4.2.2.2 Environment Agency dispersion modelling sensitivity and check modelling 
Neither report produced by the Applicant’s consultant was satisfactory, we therefore had to carry out detailed 
check dispersion modelling and sensitivity analysis using ADMS Version 5.2 to Event 1 and 2 (Service test 
scenarios), and Event 3 (grid outage scenario). 
Our own observations included:  
 Our own meteorological data 
 Surface roughness value  
 Individual generator stacks  
 Our own calculated emission rates and source parameters for all individual diesel generators based 
on manufacturer’s specifications 
 Predictions at ecological receptor locations to NOx, SO2, nutrient nitrogen and acid depositions. 
Event 1 (test scenario) and Event 2 (annual service test scenario) 
We found that: 
 For all parameters, the impacts at ecological receptors are insignificant. 
Event 3 (grid outage event scenario) 
We found that: 
 The annual atmospheric NOX and SO2 impacts at ecological receptors are unlikely to be significant 
against the critical levels. 
 The nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition impacts are unlikely to be significant at ecological sites 
against the critical loads. 
 There are potential exceedances of d aily NO X critical level at Bath and Bradford  upon Avon Bats 
SAC, Box Mine SSSI, Chapel Plaister Verge LWS, Kingsmoor Wood LWS and Box Hill Common 
LWS. 
 The daily NOX impacts at the rest of the ecological receptors are unlikely to be significant against the 
critical levels. 
Event 3 further assessment 
For the daily NO X impact for Event 3, we  calculated the maximum 1 hourly (100 th percentile) emission 
concentrations at the ecological receptors and averaged them to 4 hours of operation in a day. This a very 
conservative assumption. 
As a result, we can con clude that there is a potential to exceed daily environmental standards at Bath and 
Bradford upon Avon Bats SAC, Box Mine SSSI, Chapel Plaister Verge LWS, Kingsmoor Wood LWS and Box 
Hill Common LWS receptor locations if power outage is prolonged for longer than 4 hours in a year. However 
past operations indicate that the risk of power outage is low, based on the stated 4 hours of o peration over 
the past 10 year  (refer to section 5  for further information on reducing emissions from the emergency 
scenario Event 3). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 