EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  5 
 For Event 3, the predicted short -term NO 2 PCs are ‘not insignificant’. The highest predicted hourly 
short-term NO2 PC of 249.1 µg/m3 exceeds the ES (i.e. 124.6% of the short term ES). 
Although the “rolling 120 hour” short -term NO 2 PCs are ‘not insignificant’, Predicted Environmental 
Concentrations (PECs) are not presented. They did not explained what percentiles they calculated to 
derive these results. 
 We had to test the  sensitivity to the number of exceedance hours using hypergeome tric probability 
distribution for short-term NO2. 
 They stated that “the maximum rolling 8-hour mean CH2O exceeds the EQS at all receptor locations 
considered under Event 3 conditions, these impacts will be short -lived and not long lasting”. 
However, there is no 8 hour mean CH2O ES but 8-hour CH2O AEGL. 
 The predicted 1-hour CH2O PCs are ‘not insignificant’ but PECs are not presented against ES of 100 
µg/m3.  
 The predicted 8-hour mean CO PCs are ‘insignificant’. 
 The Applicant did not assess  impacts against th e ES for nitrogen monoxide (NO ES of 310 µg/m 3 
annual average and 4400 µg/m3 hourly mean). 
4.1.2.2 Environment Agency dispersion modelling sensitivity and check modelling 
As the Applicant’s revised August 2019 report  was not entirely satisfactory w e carrie d out detailed check 
dispersion modelling and sensitivity analysis using ADMS Version 5.2 to Event 1 and 2 (Service test 
scenarios), and Event 3 (Grid outage scenario). 
We also undertook check modelling with sensitivity analysis to our own observations, which included: 
 Our own meteorological data.  
 Surface roughness.  
 Individual generator stacks.  
 Our own calculated emission rates and source parameters for all individual diesel generators based 
on manufacturer’s specifications.  
 Our own calculation of number of exceedance hours and probability of these exceedances coinciding 
with worst meteorological conditions for event 3. 
 Our worst case 70% long -term and 35% short -term, and the less conservative 15% short -term NOX 
to NO2 conversion.  
 Predictions at an additional location of potential human exposure to NO 2, NO, CO and CH2O against 
the environmental standards not considered by the Applicant. 
Event 1 (test scenario) and Event 2 (annual service test scenario), 
We found that: 
 There is unlikely to be any exceedan ce of the long-term and short-term environmental standards at 
sensitive human health receptor locations. 
Event 3 (grid outage event scenario),  
We found that: 
 There is unlikely to be an exceedance of the long -term and short -term environmental standards at 
sensitive human health receptor locations. 
 
 
 