EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  2 
Key issues of the decision 
1. The site 
Ark Data Centres Limited operates a data centre consisting of 5 units known as SQ17, P1, P2, P3 and P4 
located on Westwells Road within the Spring Park industrial estate. Electricity for operation of the data 
centres is provided by five connections to the National Grid. Due to the need to ensure availability of 
uninterrupted power supply at all times, the site incorporates 33 diesel-fired standby generators. The total 
thermal input of the 33 standby generators is 5 generators of 3.9 MWth and 10 generators of 2.7 MWth 12 
generators of 3.6MWth and 6 generators of 5.1 MWth (approximately 120MWth in total). The redundancy of 
the standby generators on site is “N+1”, which means there is one generator more than would be required to 
provide the total power for the site in event of external power failure.  
This facility consists of the following scheduled activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016: Section 1.1 A(1) (a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 megawatts or more.  
Chapter III of the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) covers the requirements of the previous Large 
Combustion Plant Directive. The combustion units are not subject to Chapter III as no single unit size is >15 
MW thermal input. The activity is therefore regulated under Chapter II of the IED. 
For medium combustion plants which are part of an installation covered by Chapter II of Directive 
2010/75/EU, the requirements of Article 5 of the MCPD shall be deemed to be fulfilled through compliance 
with that Directive. In line with Article 6 of the MCPD, this site is a medium combustion plant regulated under 
Chapter II, the relevant MCPD emissions limits will apply. 
2. Best Available techniques (BAT) 
The Applicant carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies capable of providing emergency 
power at the data centre. 
They considered the following technologies: 
 Diesel-fired generators 
 Natural gas-fired generators (spark ignition) 
 Natural Gas Turbine 
 Aero-Derivative 
Against the following requirements for data centre plant 
 Start-up time 
 Reaction to load changes 
 Fuel volatility 
 Fuel Storage 
 Maintenance 
 Cost 
The Applicant demonstrated that in comparison to other technologies, Diesel engines were more suitable for 
the criteria set out under data centre guidance and standards. Diesel had the fastest start time, better 
reaction to load changes, lower risk fuel supply and low maintenance frequencies. Based on this assessment 
and that diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators in data 
centres, we accept that oil fired diesel generators can be considered BAT. 
 