EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  3 
3. Hours of operation 
The Applicant intends to plan their maintenance and proposes operation of 33 generators which will be less 
than 500 hours. Operation of the generators includes: 
 Every month one group of standby generators is tested. 
 Annually a full service test is undertaken where one stand-by diesel generator is started and loaded 
using a load bank. Only one generator is tested per day; 
 In the event of main power supply (grid failure). 
 
In 10 years of operation there has been no grid event that has caused all the standby generators to start 
simultaneously and the maximum number of hours generators have been required to run in an emergency 
scenario has been 4 hours. 
4. Air Quality 
The Applicant submitted two air dispersion modelling  assessments; report June 2019 and a revised report 
August 2019. The revised August 2019 report assessed the potential impact of emissions from the 
generators on local air quality. The pollutants associated with the generators, as provided by the generator 
manufacturers are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), particulate matter (PM 10), Sulphur Dioxide 
(SO2) and formaldehyde (CH 2O). The assessment therefore focuses on these pollutants. The data centre is 
not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and there are no AQMAs within 2km of the site.  
We audited the air dispersion modelling and report submitted with the permit application. Both the 
maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the modelling were assessed. 
The Applicant modelled three operational events. 
 Event 1 (Engine Test Scenario) 
Currently the standby generators are tested on a rotating basis. Every Saturday morning every 
month, one group of standby generators is tested, which includes running four generators 
simultaneously to an off-load power for 10 minutes. On the third month, this differs with every 
Saturday morning one group of standby generators is tested, which includes running four generators 
simultaneously to an on-load power (up to 80%) for 15 minutes. 
 Event 2 (Engine Annual Service Test Scenario)  
Annually a full-Service Test is undertaken where one stand-by diesel generator is started, loaded 
using a load bank. This scenario is usually undertaken over a two-hour period, only one generator is 
tested per day. 
 Event 3. (National Grid Outage Event Scenario) 
Operation of all generators in a National Grid outage scenario. 
 
4.1 Human receptors  
4.1.1 Applicant’s assessment 
For human receptors the Applicant’s revised report dated August 2019 concluded overall there will be no 
notable discomfort, irritation, or certain asymptomatic non-sensory effects at any of the nearest human 
receptors. The Applicant has chosen to assess each operational event against the Acute Exposure Guideline 
Levels (AEGLs) and concluded the following: 
 
 
 
 