EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  16 
Aspect considered Decision 
 It is unlikely environmental standards will be breached   
 The air quality modelling assessment is sufficient to determine air 
quality impacts. Therefore further validation of predictions in the 
application is not required 
 We have determined that the site specifics including location, 
distance from receptors and site generation equipment set up do not 
warrant the inclusion of these conditions  
 The air quality plan required by improvement conditions IC1 is 
sufficient to ensure the site has appropriate measures in place to 
minimise the impact of emissions in the event of a grid failure. 
Emission limits We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. See key 
issues section 8 of this document. 
Monitoring 
 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters 
listed in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies 
specified. 
These monitoring requirements have been imposed in order to ensure no loss 
of diesel off-site in surface water discharges.  
Reporting 
 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the 
standards specified in the operating techniques (including prevention of oil 
and grease in surface water discharged from site) and to ensure the operator 
informs us of any operation of the facility in emergency mode. 
Operator competence 
Management system There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Relevant convictions 
 
The Case Management System and National Enforcement Database has 
been checked to ensure that all relevant convictions have been declared. 
No relevant convictions were found. The operator satisfies the criteria in our 
guidance on operator competence. 
Financial competence 
 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially 
able to comply with the permit conditions.  
Growth Duty 
Section 108 Deregulation 
Act 2015 – Growth duty  
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and 
the guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to 
grant this permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 