EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  6 
4.2 Ecological receptors 
4.2.1 Applicant’s assessment 
The Applicant assessed each operational event and concluded that emissions would be insignificant at all 
ecological receptors. 
Event 1 and Event 2  
The Applicant assessed event 1 and 2 and concluded the following: 
 The annual mean and short term NOX PC is below the EA criteria for insignificant impacts at all 
ecological receptors. 
 The nitrogen deposition PC is below the EA criteria for insignificant impacts at all ecological 
receptors. 
 The acid deposition PC is below the EA criteria for insignificant impacts at all ecological receptors. 
Event 3 - Submission of two reports with different approaches 
The Applicant submitted two air dispersion modelling reports during the application process both taking very 
different approaches when considering impacts to ecological receptors. 
June 2019 report 
The Applicant submitted an original report June 2019. During our assessment we determined we were not 
satisfied the emission inputs were representative. 
This concluded that for Event 3 which is considered the worst case scenario with all diesel generators 
operating: 
 The Applicant predicted NOx concentrations for Event 3 below the annual mean EQS of 30μg/m3 at 
Bath and Bradford upon Avon Bats SAC for all meteorological years. The PCs are below the EA 
criteria for insignificant impacts (<1% of long term environmental standard).  
 Predicted SO2 concentrations for Event 3 are below the annual mean EQS of 20μg/m3 at all 
ecological receptor locations for all meteorological years. The PCs are below the EA criteria for 
insignificant impacts (<10% of short term environmental standard). 
 Predicted Nitrogen Deposition PCs are below the EA criteria for insignificant impacts (<1% of critical 
load) for both the high and low limits at all ecological receptors. It is considered the impact from the 
operation of the standby generators is insignificant at all ecological receptors.  
 The PCs are below the EA criteria for insignificant impacts (<1% of critical level) for the min and max 
Limit at all ecological receptors. It is considered the impact from the operation of the standby 
generators is insignificant at all ecological receptors. 
August 2019 Report 
As the Environment Agency were not satisfied with the June 2019 emissions inputs, the Applicant submitted 
revised modelling in August 2019. This concluded for Event 3 that NOx concentrations are below the annual 
mean EQS of 75μg/m3 at all ecological receptor locations for all meteorological years except for Kingsmoor 
Wood Local Wildlife Site and Ancient Woodland receptor. As such, predicted effects on daily mean NOx 
concentrations from Event 3 are insignificant at all ecological receptors except Kingsmoor Wood. However 
as stated previously it is unlikely that the emergency operation would last for more than 4 hours. 
The August 2019 version of the Applicant’s report did not provide updated predictions for SO2, Nutrient 
Nitrogen and acid deposition. The Applicant only provided daily NOx to demonstrate no short term impact.  
They stated that 
“Given the short-term nature of the emissions the assessment has not been considered for nutrient nitrogen 
and acid depositions on sensitive habitats as these are based on annual average concentrations”.  
 