 
Permit number 
EPR/PP3003PW 2 
 
Spring Park Data Centre  
Permit number EPR/PP3003PW 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
Ark Data Centres Limited operates a data centre consisting of 5 units known as SQ17, P1, P2, P3 and P4 
located on Westwells Road within the Spring Park industrial estate. Electricity for operation of the data 
centres is provided by five connections to the National Grid. Due to the need to ensure availability of 
uninterrupted power supply at all times, the site incorporates 33 diesel-fired standby generators. The total 
thermal input of the 33 standby generators is 5 generators of 3.9 MWth and 10 generators of 2.7 MWth 12 
generators of 3.6MWth and 6 generators of 5.1 MWth (approximately 120MWth in total). The redundancy of 
the standby generators on site is “N+1”, which means there is one generator more than would be required to 
provide the total power for the site in event of external power failure. 
This facility consists of the following scheduled activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016: 
- Section 1.1 A(1) (a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 megawatts or 
more. 
As no individual plant is larger than 15 MWth, the activity falls under Chapter II of the IED. The plant are 
classed as medium combustion plant as part of a Chapter II installation. Medium Combustion Plant Directive 
(MCPD) requirements are fulfilled through compliance with Chapter II of Directive 2010/75/EU. The engines 
are classed at emergency/standby plant. 
The diesel for the generators is stored in belly tanks beneath each generator with various individual 
operating capacities from 15,500 litres up to 34,000 litres. Data centre unit SQ17, P1 and P2 have belly 
tanks that are interconnected. Each standby generator is located in its own steel container with its own tank. 
Interconnected tanks contain enough diesel for 72 hours of operation. Each generator has an exhaust stack, 
each set has a different height which ranges from 4.52 m to 5.62 m above ground level. 
Surface runoff from hardstanding areas surrounding the standby generation plant will be collected in a series 
of liner channel drains and discharges to sewer via a petrol interceptor (subject to improvement condition). 
External areas to P1, P3 and P4 will be disposed through attenuation and soakaway. Building P2 hard 
standing drains to interceptor prior to discharge to sewer. Storm water runoff from the roof of all four data 
centre buildings is discharged via attenuation pond and soakway. Buildings P2, P3 and P4 are undergoing 
installation of roof water rainwater harvesting. 
The surrounding area is predominately commercial and residential with agriculture to the south. The nearest 
sensitive human receptors to the site are residential properties approximately 270 m to the East and 630 m 
to the North. The National Grid reference for the site is ST 84830 68848. The site is approximately 14.7 
hectares in size. 
There are 4 SACs (Special Area of Conservation) within 10km, 5 SSSIs (Sites of Special Scientific Interest) 
and 14 LWSs (Local wildlife sites) within 2km. 
The status log of a permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number.   
 
 
 