EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  17 
Aspect considered Decision 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of 
regulators, these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to 
development or growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a 
factor that all specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the 
delivery of the protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental 
standards to be set for this operation in the body of the decision document 
above. The guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not 
legitimise non-compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue 
economic growth at the expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of 
pollution. This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because 
the standards applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this 
sector and have been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on GOV.UK for 
the public, and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section 
Response received from 
Wessex Water 
Brief summary of issues raised 
 No comments as these proposals do not appear to affect their infrastructures.  
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
No further action taken. 
 
Response received from 
PHE 
Brief summary of issues raised 
Raised no significant concerns regarding risk to health of the local population from this proposed activity, 
providing that the application take all appropriate measures o prevent or control pollution in accordance 
with the relevant sector technical standard or industry best practice. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
No further action taken. 
 