EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  7 
 
4.2.2 Environment Agency dispersion modelling assessment 
We have audited the Applicant’s air dispersion modelling and, based on the following, we are a satisfied that 
the proposed emergency generator operating scenarios under Events 1,2 and 3 are unlikely under the worst 
case proposal Event 3 (which is the most unlikely scenario) will significantly impact on the protected sites. 
4.2.2.1 Environment Agency Audit of Applicant’s modelling 
The Applicant considered twenty ecological receptor locations within the 2 km and 10 km habitat screening 
distances for Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), European and local nature sites. 
We have checked the locat ions of these receptors and  included two  more ecological and local nature 
receptors within the appropriate screening distances. These are as follows: 
 Corsham Railway Cutting SSSI, and 
 Hazelbury Common LWS. 
We have performed sensitivity checks at receptor locations within these additional ecologi cal and local 
nature receptors. 
 When considering the impacts on ecological sites the Applicant has used APIS 1 to identify the 
feature habitats, background concentrations and relevant critical levels and critical loads. They 
calculated nutrient nitrogen and  acid depositions following AQTAG06 guidance 2. We have reviewed 
these values as part of our checks. 
 They have not provided the updated predictions at the relevant European and SSSI site locations for 
annual NOX critical level, nutrient nitrogen and acid depositions critical loads. They stated that “Given 
the short-term nature of the emissions the assessment has not been considered for nutrient nitrogen 
and acid depositions on sensitive habitats as these are based on annual average concentrations”. 
We observ e that while their original report had provided these predictions, those numerical 
predictions were based on unrepresentative emission rates. 
 Based on these updated predictions, we observe that: 
- The predicted annual NO X and SO2 PCs are all ‘insignificant’ (less than the 1% significance 
criteria) against critical level at local nature sites for Event 1 and 2. 
- The predicted annual NO X PCs are ‘not significant’ (less than 100% threshold), and the 
predicted annual SO 2 PCs are ‘insignificant’ against the critica l level at local nature sites for 
Event 3. 
- They have not presented their predicted daily NO X PCs against the critical level for Event 1 
and 2. 
- The predicted daily NO X PCs are ‘insignificant’ (less than the 10% significance criteria) 
against the critical level at some ecological receptor locations for Event 3.  
- Predictions are ‘not significant’ at the rest of ecological receptors except at Kingsmoor Wood 
LWS and AW for Event 3.  
- The highest predicted PC is ‘not insignificant’ (108.46%) and PEC is significant  (140.74%) at 
Kingsmoor Wood LWS and AW. 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
1 Air Pollution Information System (APIS) website. Available at www.apis.ac.uk  
2 AQTAG06 Technical guidance on detailed modelling approach for an appropriate assessment for 
emissions to air, March 2014 