EPR/PP3003PW/A001 
Date issued: 07/07/2020  11 
The Applicant stated that the geology of the site is fissured limestone strata, therefore free draining. It is 
therefore very important that there are no diesel leaks on site that can drain directly into groundwater. The 
most vulnerable areas on site for potential drainage would be the site soakaways and infiltration pond. 
The site drainage plans suggests that some of the runoff from areas from building SQ17 and P1 where 
generators are located do not pass through an interceptor prior to discharge to soak away or infiltration pond. 
To manage these risk the Applicant  has demonstrated that they will prevent spi llage through robust diesel 
storage, handling and distribution systems with internal and external inspection and maintenances systems 
to ensure the risk of diesel leaks and spills are low (refer to fuel containment  section 7.1 above). 
 
7.3 Environment Agency Assessment of drainage and containment 
 
We have reviewed the Applicant’s secondary containment proposals and based on the Applicant’s proposal s 
as summarised above in section  7.1, we are satisfied that the site’s secondary containment is adequate to  
manage the risk posed. 
 
We are not satisfied that the tertiary containment and drainage  are in a suitable state and  that their design 
entirely meets the requirements of the industry standards. To ensure contaminated drainage does not have 
an adverse impact, we have included improvement conditions within the permit. 
 
We have included improvement condition IC2 in the permit which requires the operator to carry out a review 
of the site’s tertiary containment system in line with relevant industry standards. The o perator will then be 
required to implement the recommendations of the review in order to bring the tertiary containment in line with 
relevant industry standard. This is to ensure, in the event the secondary containment which serves the oil and 
diesel storage tanks or the sites distribution pipe work fails, that there is another element of containment. This 
will hold liquid spills to prevent pollution and allow time to deploy addition spill measures if an incident 
escalates. 
 
We have also included IC 3 in the permit which requires  the operator to review their use and location of the 
site soakaways and infiltration ponds  which are free draining to ground. They must review the  measures in 
place to protect these features in the event of a diesel spill and impleme nted the finding of their review as 
agreed with the Environment Agency. 
 
 
8. Permit conditions 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combust ion activity; and thereby emission limit values to air 
(and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation 
includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monit oring under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive (IED) and Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD). The Environment Agency 
expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations 
(subject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off -site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Manage ment (FCDM) for grid support . This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market  and importantly provide a 
clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by 
minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning 