 
 Page 6 of 17  
exceedances of the ES; the probability is reported as less than 1%, and 
therefore ‘highly unlikely.’    
 
No other exceedances of relevant ESs are predicted for any other 
pollutant or averaging period. 
 
4. OM2 – for the ‘realistic’ 1-hour emergency power outage event, 
exceedances of the 1-hour NO2 ES are predicted should the event 
coincide with the worst-case meteorological conditions. However, the 
probability of exceedance is reported as 0% as the duration of the OM2 
scenario is only 1 hour per year, and less than the 18 exceedance hours 
permitted by the 1-hour NO2 ES. 
 
No other exceedances of relevant ESs are predicted for any other 
pollutant or averaging period. 
 
We agree with the conclusions of the applicant’s ecological assessment, which 
are based on the results presented in section 6 of the air quality report, and can 
be summarised as follows:   
1. MSM1 and MSM2 - PCs for NOx (annual and daily mean concentrations), 
nitrogen deposition and acid deposition are not likely lead to a significant 
effect. 
 
2. OM1 and OM2 - for the ‘hypothetical worst-case’ 72-hour emergency 
power outage event, PCs for annual mean NOx, nitrogen deposition and 
acid deposition are not likely lead to a significant effect.   
 
Exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level (CLE) of 75 µg/m3 are 
predicted at all six ecological receptors.  The OM1 scenario is presented 
as a theoretical worst-case and is not permitted as a normal operation.  It 
is representative of an emergency operation allowed to happen only in the 
unlikely event of failure of electrical supply from the grid.  Measures are in 
place at the site to prevent and manage/mitigate the occurrence of this 
emergency operation. The primary prevention measure relied upon to 
avoid this emergency scenario occurring is the highly reliable design of the 
electrical grid and of the site connections to it (described in the BAT 
section below).  The requirement to run the back-up generators in an 
emergency is therefore minimised as far as possible and a 72-hour outage 
scenario is considered highly unlikely.   
 
For the more realistic power outage duration of 1 hour (OM2), there would 
be no exceedances of NOx CLE or the relevant critical loads for nitrogen 