 
 Page 2 of 17  
Key issues of the decision 
In reaching our decision to grant the permit we took into consideration the 
following matters: 
 
Overview of the Installation  
The site is part of a new electronic data storage centre which includes back-up 
generation capacity, a Schedule 1 S1.1 Part A(1) (a) activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance 
with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts). The site is located on 
Buckingham Avenue in Slough. The National Grid Reference for the site is SU 
95697 81097. The nearest residential receptors are approximately 400 m to the 
north east and 500m to the east. 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an 
emergency scenario if the National Grid power supply fails. The combustion 
activity comprises 20 gas oil fuelled standby generators (SBGs), 18 of the SBGs 
have a thermal input of 8.13 MWth each, the remaining two SBGs will have a 
thermal input of 2.5 MWth each. The aggregated total combustion capacity on 
site is 151.34 MWth. The Operator is intending to install 19 SBGs but an 
additional SBG may be installed in the future in order to future proof the site. 
Each generator has an exhaust, which is 23m above ground level. 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. In the 
event of a failure of this electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to 
maintain power to the data centre. The generators will be used solely for the 
purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation. The datacentre will be developed in three phases; the first 
phase is for the installation of 9 SBGs, phase two (approximately 60 weeks after 
phase 1) is for the installation of 5 SBGs and the final phase, phase 3 is for the 
installation of the final 5/6 SBGs. 
The generators are subject to a routine maintenance testing schedule at 45% 
load, with fortnightly testing for 30 minutes and quarterly testing for 1 hour.  Every 
six months the generators will also be tested at 100% load for 1.5 hours. During 
this routine testing, each generator will be tested separately to minimise air 
quality impact. In addition there will also be an annual emergency test of all 
generators operating simultaneously and continuously for 4 hours.  The testing 
scenarios total 24 hours operation per generator per year. 
 
Each of the SBGs runs on gas oil fuel, each generator has a ‘belly tank’ with a 
capacity of 40,000 litres, the two-house generators each have a belly tank with a 
capacity of 14,000 litres. In addition, the site has two receiver tanks each with a 
capacity of 1,200 litres. The receiver tanks will be used to top up the belly tanks. 
The maximum volume of 750,400 litres of gas oil can be stored at the installation. 
The belly tanks are bunded to provide 110% containment, fitted with high-and 
low-level alarms, leak detection and tank level gauges.  