 
 Page 3 of 17  
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, 
sulphur dioxide, particulate matter and carbon monoxide. The site is covered in 
hardstanding, uncontaminated surface water from the generator compounds is 
discharged via the surface water drainage system. Surface water run-off from the 
generator compounds will drain via an oil interceptor (17,000 litre capacity Class 
1 full retention interceptor). Following the interceptor, the surface water runoff will 
drain into an on-site soakaway 
 
 
 
Air Quality  
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-
emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-environmental-permit) and the relevant parts 
of the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/specified-generators-
dispersion-modelling-assessment ) the Applicant submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-
environmental-permit. 
The applicant’s assessment of the impact of emissions to air is detailed in 
application document titled ‘Amazon Data Services UK Limited, LON2 Data 
Centre, Slough, Air Emissions Risk Assessment’, ref: 410.11808.00001 version 
V1.3, dated October 2021, supplemented by the applicant’s response to 
Schedule 5 notice dated 17/08/2022, which was received by the Environment 
Agency on 28/09/2022 and which includes a ‘Technical Note’ ref: 
410.11808.00001. 
The primary pollutants of concern that have been assessed by the applicant are 
nitrogen dioxide (NO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM).   
The applicant screened out the impacts of sulphur dioxide (SO2) as negligible 
due to the use of low-sulphur gas oil and so this pollutant was not specifically 
modelled. We have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to ultra-
low sulphur gas oil.  
Carbon monoxide (CO) was also assessed but we consider that this will also be 
negligible for modern and well-maintained efficient generators which allow for the 
complete combustion of the fuel with the appropriate combustion conditions in 
line with the equipment manufacturer’s specification.  
The Lakes Aermod-view software dispersion model was used to predict 
atmospheric concentrations of the identified pollutants; we accept that the use of 
this model is appropriate for these circumstances. 