 
 Page 4 of 17  
Four different operating scenarios were modelled. Two scenarios, MSM1 and 
MSM2, represent routine testing operations. Two further scenarios, OM1 and 
OM2, represent emergency situations where there is a loss of electrical power.  
The operating scenarios are summarised below: 
 
Maintenance Schedule Model MSM1 – each generator unit is tested separately 
at 45% load for 30 minutes every two weeks and one hour every three months.  
Additionally, each generator is tested separately at 100% load for 1.5 hours every 
six months. i.e. 20 hours of operation per generator each year in total.    
The modelling assumes that all the testing is carried out at 100% load even 
though the majority of the testing is undertaken at 45% load.  This is likely to be a 
conservative approach as modelled mass emissions are likely to be less than 
emissions at 100% load.   
Maintenance Schedule Model MSM2 - all 20 generators are tested 
simultaneously for 4 hours once per year at 100% load, i.e. 4 hours of operation 
per generator in total.      
Outage Model OM1 (worst-case) - all 20 generators operate simultaneously and 
continuously for 72 hours at 100% load, i.e. 72 hours of operation per generator 
in total. 
Outage Model OM2 (realistic) - all 20 generators operate simultaneously and 
continuously for 1 hour at 100% load, i.e. 1 hour of operation per generator in 
total.  
Emissions are from 22.69m high stacks of 0.35m diameter (2 house generators) 
and 0.6m diameter (18 main generators).  Pollutant emission rates are typical of 
those likely to be installed at the installation (US EPA Tier 2 standard).   
Background concentrations of PM and CO were obtained from DEFRA-mapped 
background concentration estimates.  Background concentrations of NO2 used in 
the assessment are based on suburban measurement 0.9 km to the northeast of 
the site location. 
Where relevant, background concentrations at ecological receptors have been 
derived from the UK Air Pollution Information System (APIS) database. 
The operator’s response to our Schedule 5 notice, amended the 4-hour 
Emergency Test (MSM2) operating envelope for the site to the hours between 
8am and 6pm.  The Technical Note also presented an assessment for the MSM2 
scenario against NO2 US EPA Acute Exposure Guideline Level 1 (AEGL-1), 
including additional receptors for 10-minute exposure and considered nominal 
test value NOx emission concentrations in addition to the previously assessed 
‘Not to Exceed’ (NTE) emission concentrations. 