 
Permit number                              
EPR/PP3309MK 12 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 Air Quality Management Plan 
The Operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power;  
• Selection of appropriate times for full-scale testing of the 
generators; 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
19 July 2024 or 
as agreed in 
writing with the 
Environment 
Agency 
IC2 Monitoring of emissions 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the 
Environment Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of the 
flue gas monitoring requirements specified in Table S3.1, in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified 
generators’ Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
The plan shall include, but not be limited to: 
- When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a proposal to 
install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
- Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints 
affecting the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed deviation 
from the testing regime specified in table S3.1.  
19 April 2023 or 
as agreed in 
writing with the 
Environment 
Agency 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures  
Reference Operation 
PO1 Commissioning plan 
At least 1 month before operation the operator shall submit a commissioning plan to the 
Environment Agency for approval.  The plan will provide timescales for the commissioning 
of the gas-oil generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the gas-oil 
generators is covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising 
durations and impacts. When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted 
regular testing regime, the operator shall submit an environmental risk assessment for 
approval by the Environment Agency, demonstrating that the environmental risks during 
the commissioning are minimised and remain not significant. The commissioning of the 
engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the plan and associated 
environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency. 
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 