 
 Page 10 of 17  
power failure, however 2 catcher SBGs will run only partially loaded. The catcher 
system is designed to be an oversubscribed system to provide redundancy for up 
to 15 primary power streams, but only 1 primary power stream at a time. The two 
house SBGs, which will supply a mixture of critical and non-critical power 
systems, will have a 2N resilience configuration for the power infrastructure they 
will serve (i.e. twice as many SBGs for the required load) and will run part load.  
 
In order to minimise the need for emergency operation, the data centre has two 
separate substation feeds. These two 33KV supplies are fed direct from the 
National Grid; in the event of failure of one feed the remaining feed can provide 
the required electrical power for the data centre. To address short term 
fluctuations, brown-outs or black-outs, the site has an uninterruptable power 
supply (arrays of batteries) which can supply power until the generators operate. 
 
We are satisfied that the installation meets BAT relevant to the permitted 
operation.  
 
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
The generators are located in containers over hard-standing or concrete flooring. 
Externally, the site will consist of new hard standing. Gas-oil, hazardous waste 
and hazardous materials storage is bunded and/or indoors, such that any source 
of potential contamination is prevented from discharge to land. 
Each generator is located above a belly tank which automatically supplies diesel 
to the generators. The belly tanks for all generator container units will be bunded 
(110% capacity). The belly tanks will have the following protection measures:  
 
• Tank level gauge.  
• High and low level alarms connected to the building management system 
(BMS) and the generator container units. 
• A pressure delivery over-fill prevention valve.  
• Leak detection alarms connected to the BMS.  
• The generator sets have pressure relief valves to prevent over 
pressurisation of diesel supplied from the belly tanks.  
• An Engine ECU which will provide instantaneous fuel consumption data 
which will be automatically collated to calculate total fuel consumption over 
time.  
• To minimise the risk of corrosion all pipework is either painted or 
constructed of corrosion resistant material. 
 
Gas oil is delivered to the site by refuelling vehicles. Gas oil is pumped to a 
receiver station, which contains multiple fill points for the delivery of fuel to the 
belly tanks. For the standby generators (SBGs) located on gantry level 2, gas oil 
is automatically pumped via 2 small secondary contained (110% capacity) above 
ground receiver tanks (each with a capacity of 1.2m3). The gas oil will 
automatically be pumped from the receiver tanks directly to these belly tanks. For 
the SBG located on the ground and 1st gantry levels will be filled directly from the 
refuelling vehicles via the receiver station.  
 