 
 Page 5 of 17  
The Environment Agency Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) 
has audited the air dispersion modelling assessment report and supplementary 
Technical Note and carried out check modelling and sensitivity analysis. The 
audit has reviewed the selection of modelling inputs, modelling methodology and 
assumptions, selection and distribution of receptors, the outputs of the modelling 
exercise, statistical interpretation of modelling outputs and conclusions of the 
assessment.  
We agree with the conclusions of the applicant’s assessment, which are based 
on the process contributions (PCs) and predicted environmental concentrations 
(PECs) at human receptors given in section 6 of the air quality report and the 
supplementary Technical Note for NO2 and Appendix B of the air quality report 
for CO, PM10 and PM2.5, and can be summarised as follows: 
1. MSM1 – no exceedances of relevant environmental standards (ESs) are 
predicted for any pollutant. 
 
2. MSM2 – no exceedances of the ESs are predicted for any pollutant, 
except for the 1-hour NO2 ES (200 µg/m3) where exceedances are 
predicted at all human receptors.   
 
The applicant used a statistical analysis methodology to determine the 
likelihood of the worst predicted emissions from the operations of the 
standby emergency plant coinciding with the worst meteorological hours 
over the modelled operating envelope, and subsequently causing a breach 
of the short-term ES for NO2 for more than 18 hours in a year, 
corresponding to the 99.79th percentile specification for the short-term NO2 
AQS. The statistical analysis was based on the hypergeometric probability 
distribution and followed the methodology set out in our web guidance on 
dispersion modelling assessment for generators. 
 
The results of the applicant’s analysis show that, given the small number 
of operating hours, it is ‘highly unlikely’ (reported as 0%) that any of these 
scenarios result in an exceedance of the short-term NO2 ES for more than 
18 hours per year. 
 
Table 3-1 of the Technical Note presents the 100th percentile of 1-hour 
NO2 PCs at human receptors for the MSM2 scenario with the amended 4-
hour test operating envelope (8am - 6pm only) for both the NTE Emissions 
Scenario and the Tier-2 Test Data Emissions Scenario. No exceedances 
of the 10-minute AEGL-1 are predicted at any of the receptor locations. 
 
3. OM1 – for the ‘hypothetical worst-case’ 72-hour emergency power outage 
event, exceedances of the 1-hour NO2 ES are predicted at all human 
receptors should the event coincide with the worst-case meteorological 
conditions. Statistical analysis is presented to determine the likelihood of 