 
 Page 7 of 17  
deposition and acid deposition.  Emissions are therefore not likely to lead 
to a significant effect. 
 
We are satisfied that the applicant’s air dispersion modelling assessment is 
conservative and we agree with the applicant’s conclusions regarding human 
health and ecological impacts for all testing and the emergency scenarios. Based 
on the information reviewed, we consider that aerial emissions associated with 
operations of the proposed installation will not cause exceedances of the 
applicable human health environmental standards and will not affect any site of 
nature conservation and protected species or habitats identified. 
 
 
Noise  
The site will only run the generators regularly as part of the testing regimes 
described earlier, occurring during daytime hours. Overnight operation of the 
generators will only occur in an emergency situation. As this is a new installation 
it is not possible to consider the likelihood of overnight operation by examining 
the frequency of historical outages, but the potential for prolonged power outages 
in the area is considered to be low. 
 
The operator has confirmed that the following measures will be in place to reduce 
the potential for noise impacts outside of the site boundary: 
 
• The generators will be housed within bespoke container units fitted with 
noise attenuation. 
• All equipment will be maintained and operated in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s guidance and maintained in good working order. 
• Any noise complaint received will be logged, with action taken to identify 
the source of the noise and remedial measures implemented where 
appropriate. 
 
We have reviewed the requirement for a Noise Impact Assessment using our 
qualitative noise screening criteria. The tool indicates that noise is unlikely to 
become an issue because of the nature of the installation and its location. The 
limited hours of operation combined with the proposed noise mitigation measures 
are considered to be sufficient to control noise arising from the installation. The 
local council have been consulted in this matter and raised no objection. 
 
We have applied the standard noise conditions within the permit which we 
consider impose sufficient control should any issues arise. 
 
 
 
 
 