 
 Page 9 of 17  
It is anticipated that the timescale of operation is likely to be short. They will only 
operate in this mode when the National Grid is off-line. The Operator has put 
multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure 
including dual substation connection and management systems for preventing 
data centre failure. Short term fluctuations (brown-outs and black-outs) in power 
supply are prevented by an array of batteries which can provide power in the 
short term under the generators are operational.  
 
We consider that the commissioning of new generators may pose risks to the 
environment which have not been addressed in the application documents. We 
have therefore included a pre-operational condition (PO1) requiring the 
submission of a commissioning plan, which gives details of how the potential 
impact on the environment will be managed.   
 
The permit includes requirement to carry out on-going monitoring of the 
emissions from the generators (see Monitoring section of this document). As the 
Applicant has not confirmed the installation of suitable monitoring ports at 
present, we have included an improvement condition (IC2) requiring the operator 
to demonstrate that appropriate sample locations are included in the design of 
the generators.   
 
 
Best Available Techniques 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that gas oil fired generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators. However, we require a BAT assessment detailing the 
choice of generator, the particular configuration and plant sizing to meet the 
standby arrangement (e.g. N+1).  
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft or Tier II US EPA, or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at 5% reference oxygen 
and normal conditions. The operator confirmed that the manufacturer 
specification for all the proposed generators states that the engine models are 
optimised to be Tier II US EPA compliant. We consider that this represents BAT. 
The operator confirms that all 18 main SBGs will be MTU20VDS4000G94LF 
engines and the 2 house SBGs will be MTU12V2000G86F engines. 
 
The stacks will be vertical and located on the roofs of the SBG container units. 
The vertical stacks will terminate at building roof height (circa 23m above ground 
level). This is the maximum height allowed under the planning zone. 
 
The operator was required to demonstrate that the number and size of the 
generators matches the requirements of the data centre. They confirmed that 
each data centre suite will have its own dedicated generators required to meet 
the electrical load of that suite and to provide the required level of redundancy. 
The initial configuration for the 18 main SBGs serving critical power infrastructure 
will comprise of a 15:2 catcher system (i.e. N+2C) meaning that all units run in 