EPR/QP3434DR/A001 
Date issued: 04/05/18  5 
Overall diesel generators are considered to be BAT for provision of backup power at this site due to the 
requirement for a cost effective, reliable and proven technique to provide operational resilience. As a proven 
technology, there are also proven technological and design options available to mitigate the risks of adverse 
environmental impacts, which have been considered by the Applicant.  
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m 3. 
The operator has committed to ensure future generators, which would be subject to a permit variation, meet 
BAT requirements.  
 
Noise Impacts 
Noise assessment  
The primary noise source on site are the generators. In April 2017, noise mitigation works were carried out at 
the site which involved blocking some acoustic weaknesses in the building structure that had been allowing 
some sound to escape from the generator room.  
The Applicant submitted a noise survey with the permit application to assess the effectiveness of a noise 
mitigation works. The key findings are as follows:  
• Noise at the site has reduced by around 5dBA following completion of the noise mitigation works. Noise 
monitoring data recorded prior to installation supports this assessment.   
• The majority of generators at the site do not cause noise above the lowest daytime background level 
measured as 54 dBLA90 at the nearest receptor.  
• Three of the generators do have the potential to cause noise above background, with the highest 
measured impact at the nearest receptor being 58 dBLAeq.  
It should be noted that there are no known noise complaints regarding the site. Whilst we would consider the 
night-time background level to be the worst-case ambient conditions, the operator has justified the use of the 
daytime background in their assessment due to the most likely operating scenario (testing) only occurring 
during the daytime. The results of the assessment show that the level of noise from these three generators is 
not a level where complaints are likely (+4 dBA above background).  
The site maintenance and testing regime is currently arranged to ensure the impacts of noise are minimised. 
Given the improvements made on site as detailed above, we will now expect the operator, through the 
review of their EMS, to ensure that the impacts on lo cal air quality are also given consideration when the 
maintenance and testing schedule is devised in the future.  
Permit conditions  
At this time we are satisfied that a site specific Noise Management Plan (NMP) is not required beyond the 
controls detailed in the management system. However, the permit conditions contain a provision for the 
Environment Agency to request the applicant to produce and implement a NMP should the activities give rise 
to noise and/or vibration beyond the installation boundary.  
 
Soil and Groundwater Impacts 
There are a number of fuel storage tanks at the installation, which store diesel to supply the generators. A 
potentially significant risk is associated with the on-site bulk storage of fuel and the potential for leaks or 
spills from re-fuelling, or from damage to the tanks. 
 
The Applicant submitted an appraisal of the fuel storage arrangements and controls at the installation to 
demonstrate their soil and groundwater protection methodology, including compliance with the Control of 
Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001 (OSR), and guidance on Oil Storage Regulations for 
Businesses, where appropriate.  
 
All tanks are metal and meet British Standard 799-5, me eting the OSR and as such can be considered BAT. 
In addition, all tanks are double skinned and are able to contain an extra 10% of the capacity of the tank. 
 