EPR/QP3434DR/A001 
Date issued: 04/05/18  2 
Description of the installation 
Brick Lane Data Centre is an installation centred on National Grid Reference TQ 33799 82048. The 
installation comprises standby generators supporting three adjacent data hubs; “Lon 1”, “Lon 2” and “Lon 3”, 
which require an uninterruptible power supply for critical computing equipment such as servers, 
telecommunications, network and storage systems in the event of a failure of supply from the National Grid.  
Brick Lane Data Centre has 13 standby generators housed at Lon 1 and Lon 2 (Lon 1: 2 x 3.62 MWth, 1 x 
4.85 MWth, 5 x 4.25 MWth. Lon 2: 5 x 4.85 MWth) with a total aggregated net thermal input of 57.59 MWth. 
The 13 standby generators provide back-up power to all three data hubs.  
The operation of this plant constitutes a Schedule 1 activity under Part A(1) Section 1.1 of the Environmental 
Permitting Regulations for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW).  
Apparatus on site will bring the generators online should grid supply fail, whilst batteries provide 
instantaneous emergency power prior to generator start up. It takes approximately 7-10 seconds for the 
generators to start and accept load. 
The installation has the capacity to store up to 121,120 litres of fuel via a number of tanks of varying size, 
which are integrally bunded and/or contained within buildings.  
Each generator has its own stack which vents the products of combustion to air. Clean and uncontaminated 
surface water run-off from the site is discharged to the Thames Water Combined Sewer.  
The installation is sited in a heavily built up area in close proximity to a range of buildings including 
residential properties, commercial premises, schools and workplaces. The site falls within the Tower Hamlets 
Air Quality Management Area.  
Epping Forest Special Area of Conservation and Lee Valley Special Protection Area and Ramsar are located 
within 10 kilometres of the installation.   
The operating scenarios for the installation are as follows: 
• Monthly maintenance test: Each generator operates in turns (one at a time) for up to 30 minutes every 
month on a weekday during the daytime (9am to 4pm) at 10% load. 
• UPS maintenance test: Each generator is tested twice a year for 6 hours on weekends during daytime 
(10am to 4pm) in pairs at 30% load. 
• Emergency operations: Loss of power from the National Grid during outages. The site has a resilience 
level of n+1, meaning that the site load can be met with one of the generators in each bank not running.  
 
There is no other combustion plant on site ≥ 1MW. 