 
Permit number 
EPR/QP3434DR 11 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan outlining the 
response measures to be taken in the event of a grid failure. This should 
include but not be limited to the following considerations:  
 Regard for the pressures on the local Air Quality Management 
Area, including liaison with the Local Authority.   
 Regard for the predicted potential impact indicated by the air 
dispersion modelling at individual receptors;  
 Specific timescales for response measures; 
 Regard for how local conditions during a grid failure might 
influence the response required, for example meteorological 
conditions or time of day; 
 Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
 Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for approval prior to implementation.  
04/11/18 
  IC2 The operator shall undertake a full appraisal, including cost/benefit 
analysis, of the practicable, technical and economic feasibility of increasing 
the emission point stack heights, as outlined by the scenario in the air 
dispersion modelling.  
A report detailing this appraisal shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for review. Where development is identified to be practicable, as 
well as technically and economically feasible; the report shall contain a 
schedule of works, with timescales for completion.  
04/01/19 
 
IC3 The operator shall undertake a site drainage survey of sub-surface 
drainage systems within the installation boundary and provide a report to 
establish the integrity of the systems and demonstrate that the risk of 
fugitive emissions from the installation is minimised.  
Where the requirement for improvements is identified, the report shall 
include a schedule of works for the proposed improvements with 
timescales for completion. 
Completion of the survey shall also establish the location(s) where 
discharge of site drainage from the site enters the combined sewer, as 
required by Table S3.2, and confirm if any abatement (such as interceptors) 
is afforded to the discharge.  
04/05/19 
 
 
 
  