EPR/QP3434DR/A001 
Date issued: 04/05/18  8 
Aspect considered Decision 
The site 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, showing 
the extent of the site of the facility. The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our 
guidance on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect all known sites of 
nature conservation, landscape and heritage and/or protected species or 
habitats identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any sites of nature 
conservation, landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats 
identified.  
We have not consulted Natural England on the application but a copy of our 
HRA Stage 1 form was sent to them for information. The decision was taken 
in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
The assessment shows that, applying the conservative criteria in our 
guidance on environmental risk assessment, all emissions may be 
categorised as environmentally insignificant with the exception of long term 
NO2. However, our consideration of this is given in more detail in the ‘Key 
Issues’ section of this document.  
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for 
emissions that do not 
screen out as insignificant 
 
Emissions of long term NO2 cannot be screened out as insignificant. We have 
assessed whether the proposed techniques are BAT. 
This is explained in more detail in the ‘Key Issues’ section of this document.  