EPR/QP3434DR/A001 
Date issued: 04/05/18  3 
 
Key issues of the decision 
Air Quality Impacts 
The data centre is located within the Tower Hamlets Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) which is 
managed for NO2 and PM10.  
Modelling assessment  
The Applicant has submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assessed the potential impact of the 
emissions of PM10 and NO2 from the generators on local air quality.  
Having regard for the likely operating scenarios, the following conservative assumptions were incorporated 
into the model:  
 The generators have been assumed to run at operating loads above reality which has given rise to 
emission rates higher than is likely to occur.  
 Assumed two full hour grid outages in the worst two meteorological hours of the year. This number 
of outages is much more than historic outage data shows is likely in a year, and the model has 
assumed that they will occur during the least dispersive met conditions. 
 Assumed that a monthly and annual test are carried out on the two days of the year that give rise to 
the highest daily concentrations.  
 The meteorological year that gives rise to the highest short term concentrations at sensitive 
receptors has been used in the assessment.  
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU ) audited the air disper sion modelling and report 
submitted with the permit application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
model were assessed. 
In terms of PM 10, the model demonstrated that the predicted long and short term Process Contributions are 
insignificant as they are considerably less than the relevant significance thresholds. 
 
For NO
2, whilst the model demonstrated that the predicted long term Process Contribution at 3% of the EQS 
cannot be deemed as insignificant (>1%); we ar e satisfied that the predictions of the Predicted 
Environmental Concentrations (PEC) are unlikely to cause an exceedance of the Environmental Standard for 
NO
2 based on the statistical analysis of the ‘worst case’ operating scenarios. 
 
The operator also modelled the impacts based on a potential increase in stack height to 34 metres, the 
outcome demonstrated a reduction in the overall process contribution to 1.1%.  
 
Permit conditions 
Given the local issues regarding air quality, including the designation of the AQMA, we have included IC1 
and IC2 as an improvement programme requirement in the permit. This requires the operator to produce an 
Air Quality Management Plan and undertake a cost/benefit analysis of the increased stack heights (to enable 
better dispersion). This is based on the outcome of the modelling assessment and the ‘standalone’ controls 
required in addition to those in the EMS and permitted Operating Techniques. 
The permit will also include a maximum 500 hour ‘emerg ency/standby operational lim it’ for any or all the 
plant producing on-site power under the limits of the comb ustion activity. Therefore, emission limit values 
ELVs to air (and therefore emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit. Emergency hours’ 
operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
In addition, each individual generator with its own discharge stack can each be maintained, tested and used 
in a planned way for up to 50 hours per calendar year without ELVs or associated monitoring under 
IED/MCPD. The maintenance scenarios are detailed above and controlled though permitted Operating 
Techniques.  
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (.i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support.  