EPR/QP3434DR/A001 
Date issued: 04/05/18  4 
This is primarily to differentiate data centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing 
market, and importantly a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
Operations and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by 
minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning 
off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. This is controlled in the permit through the operating techniques.  
The permit application must assess and provide evidence of actual reliability data for the local electricity grid 
distribution (including data centre internal electrical design) for the Environment Agency to judge the realistic 
likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode (especially if 
emissions model so as to exceed short term air quality standards). 
The site is served via Finsbury Market electricity substation, a highly resilient 33 kW source. Grid reliability is 
very good with historical few outages (the most recent being in May 2016 for an hour and before that in 
March 2010 for a few minutes). As described above, there is also battery back-up available at this site. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) requires both  immediate notification of  the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres. The Applicant submitted a complete BAT appraisal with the permit application. The key 
findings are as follows: 
• Fuel cell technology may have potential in future but as there are not yet a significant set of examples 
proving it as a reliable option for backup power provisions it is unlikely to be appropriate for application at 
such a critical facility.  
• Backup power solutions that rely on piped natural gas are unlikely to be able to provide sufficient 
resilience due to risk that the natural gas supply could be cut off at the same time as a mains failure – for 
example due to a natural disaster or domestic industrial action. On-site storage of natural gas has not 
been considered in detail due to the excessive storage space requirements that this would entail on such 
a constrained site.  
• Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cells (PAFCs) and Molten Carbonate Fuel Cells (MCFCs) have been developed 
for stationary power generation, such as combined heat and power. They both share characteristics that 
make them unsuitable for providing back up power due to their high operating temperatures and 
consequential slow start up time. This is a particular problem for MCFCs which operate at 650°C and 
have a load ramping of 0.5kW per minute. 
• Hydrogen gas is difficult to store over long periods. Hydrogen can be generated on site from electricity 
but use of grid electricity to generate hydrogen has high conversion losses and the carbon intensity of 
grid electricity is such that this is not a low carbon solution. Hydrogen can also be obtained on site using 
hydrogen reformer technology from natural gas but this presents similar problems for back up generation 
as other natural gas solutions. 
• Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) based generation technology would have a lower air quality and global 
warming impact. However there is reduced resilience due to the less reliable frequency stability of LPG 
as compared to diesel generators. Although this could be corrected using an optimisation device the 
system is nevertheless less desirable as a technology for provision of backup power to mission critical IT 
systems. Given that the generation equipment is not ex pected to operate for a significant proportion of 
time, the environmental benefit over diesel generatio n technology is not considered significant enough 
justification. 