 
 
The main pollutants of concern resulting from operation of the standby 
generators are: oxides of nitrogen (NOx), oxides of sulphur (SOx) and 
particulates (PM10).  
 
The Operator has assessed emissions from the generators and conducted air 
dispersion modelling to determine whether impact from these pollutants can 
be screened out as having no likely significant effect.  
 
However, where an emission cannot be screened out as insignificant, it does 
not mean it will necessarily be significant. For pollutants that do not screen out 
as insignificant, we determine whether exceedances of the relevant 
environmental quality standard (EQS) is likely. This is done through detailed 
audit and review of the Operator’s air dispersion modelling taking background 
concentrations and modelling uncertainties into account. Where an 
exceedance of an EQS is identified, we may require the Operator to go 
beyond what would normally be considered BAT or refuse the application.  
 
The Operator’s assessment of the impact of air quality is set out in section 8.2 
of the application and the amended modelling saved on EDRM, reference 
‘Application new bespoke: Modelling files – amended modelling’ dated 
14/07/2015. The assessment comprises:  
• dispersion modelling of emissions to air from the operation of the 
generators; and 
• a study of the impact of emissions on nearby sensitive habitat and 
conservation sites.  
 
The Operator’s modelling predictions has considered three operating 
scenarios described as event 1, 2 and 3 in the application. The air quality 
assessment considered emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO
2), particulate 
matter (PM10) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) from 24 diesel generators under the 
following events:  
• Event 1 (standby generator tests) – each month each group of standby 
generators are powered up and run to approximately 50% full load for 
two hours whilst connected to a mobile load bank. 
• Event 2 (non routine operation standby duty) – annually a full In 
Service Test (IST/Black Building Test) is undertaken where all 
generator sets are started, synchronised and take the building load. 
This will normally take place over a one hour period.  
• Event 3 (grid outage) – at the present time the standby generators are 
used for standby power only. Standby duty will only occur in the event 
of a loss of grid power to the building. An assumed grid outage of up to 
five days loss at a maximum frequency of once per five years as a 
worst case scenario.  
 
Further to assessment it should be noted that for all the scenarios described 
above, it is not possible for all generators to operate at the same time. This is 
to ensure that there is a margin of safety should there be a failure in the 
backup system. As such modelling predictions significantly over estimate 
emissions from the generators.  
 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 6 of 22 
 