 
 
• Option 4 – Piped natural gas turbine generators 
• Option 5 – Hydrogen fuel cell generators 
• Option 6 – Gas turbines and fast start aero engine based gas turbines 
 
The BAT assessment highlighted that option 2, LPG spark ignition generators, 
would not be suitable as they are not as reliable as diesel generators in 
providing frequency stability and therefore will require additional equipment to 
correct for this.  
 
Option 3, piped natural gas spark ignition generators, was ruled out as the 
reliance on gas network rather than onsite fuel creates a single point of failure 
that is unlikely to meet the resilience requirements of the installation. Onsite 
storage of natural gas would require excessive storage space. Option 4, piped 
natural gas turbines, was also ruled out on this basis and slow cold start 
capability. 
 
Option 5, hydrogen fuel cell generators, were considered in the BAT options 
assessment. However they were ruled out due to being new technology 
without proven installations in back up generation capacity. Furthermore, they 
are considered unsuitable for providing back  up power due to their high 
operating temperatures and consequential start up time and hydrogen gas 
can be difficult to store for long periods of time.  
 
Option 6, gas turbines, are not proven reliable for high integrity data centres. 
The synchronising process is not as efficient as diesel based systems due to 
poor turn down of gas turbines, significant risks with storing gas and 
increased risk from failure of a single unit. Therefore, they are unlikely to be 
resilient enough for the installation requirements. Fast start aero engines were 
also considered but, similarly to the gas turbines, synchronising multiple units 
is difficult and unreliable. Large single units are unsuitable due to poor turn 
down. Therefore, they do  not provide the required flexibility and have a high 
risk of failure. The gas turbines and fast start aero engines would require 
battery uninterruptable power supply (UPS) to cover the longer (40 second) 
start up period, in order to achieve the same resilience as diesel generators.  
 
Fast start is a fundamental requirement of the technology as it is essential to 
resume, almost instantaneously, a supply of electricity in the event of loss of 
power to the site. Diesel generators are the preferred option for the supply of 
backup power for data centres and are a proven technology for providing 
reliable resilience of functionality which can be started from cold very quickly. 
Santander consider that option 1, diesel engine generators run on fuel oil, is 
the best technology and should be used to provide the emergency power 
supply to Carlton Park Data Centre 1 and 2.  
 
Emissions to Air 
 
The Operator has assessed emissions using a number of operating 
scenarios. These are described in the application as events 1, 2 and 3.  
 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 5 of 22 
 