 
 
objective of recycling any uncontaminated water where possible. Any excess 
that can’t be reutilised within the installation will be discharged to foul sewer.  
 
A separate recessed area will be provided for the fuel oil delivery area, for 
each data centre. Any surface water from these areas will discharge through a 
retention interceptor to foul sewer.  
 
Site Setting, Layout and History 
 
The proposed installation lies on the north east outskirts of Narborough.  
The installation will be located at Carlton Park Business Park which is a 
Primary Employment Area and the development itself will be on a former 
Greenfield site. The installation will occupy approximately 2.5 acres and Data 
Centre 1 and Data Centre 2 are located 190 metres apart. To the north of 
Data Centre 1 and east of Data Centre 2 are office buildings, to the east of 
Data Centre 1 is David Lloyd leisure facility, to the west of Data Centre 2 there 
are residential properties and in between both data centres is Busy Bees 
Nursery.  
 
The underlying geology of the site is Triassic Mudstones. The bedrock is 
classified as secondary B aquifer which is of lower permeability.  
 
There is no known history of pollution at the site as this area was previously a 
mixture of semi improved grassland, scattered trees and scrub.  
 
The Operator has submitted a Site Condition Report (SCR) which included 
the baseline conditions. We have reviewed the SCR and consider that it 
adequately describes the condition of the soil and groundwater prior to 
commencement of operations.  
 
The installation will operate an Environment Management System in line with 
the requirements of ISO 14001.  
 
We are satisfied that appropriate management systems and management 
structures will be in place for this installation.  
 
Site Security 
 
Having considered the information submitted in the application, we are 
satisfied that appropriate infrastructure and procedures will be in place to 
ensure that the site remains secure.  
 
Operating Techniques 
 
We have specified that the Operator must operate the installation in 
accordance with the following documents contained in the application:  
 
Description Parts Included Justification 
The application  Parts B2 and B3 and the 
supplementary 
Each of the indicated 
sections contains 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 3 of 22 
 