Carlton Park Data Centre 1 & 2  
Permit number EPR/QP3533ED 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The permit is for the operation of emergency standby diesel generators, Diesel Rotary Uninterruptable 
Power Supply (DRUPS) units, to provide backup power generation to two data centres in the event of 
National Grid failure and planned maintenance. The site is operated by Santander UK Plc. The proposed 
facility is located in Carlton Business Park, Narborough and is centred on National Grid Reference SP 53752 
98237.  
Electrical power is provided to the data centres from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise standby DRUP units to maintain operational resilience. The 
DRUPS will be used solely for the purpose for generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported 
from the installation.   
The data centres will house the same number of DRUPS units and will be constructed in two phases: 
designated as Day 1 and Day 2. Six DRUPS units will be provided for the Day 1 configuration, in each data 
centre, and a further six DRUPS units will be provided for the Day 2 configuration, totalling 24 DRUPS units 
across both data centres. Each unit has a thermal capacity of 4.49 megawatts (MWth) and a total 
aggregated thermal input of 107.76 MWth.  
Diesel fuel will be stored on the facility in four bulk fuel tanks, which are housed within subterranean bunkers. 
There will be two bunkers on each site, each containing two 67,500 litre bulk fuel tanks. Fuel for the 
generators will be transferred from the bulk tankers via a pipe network designed to minimise the potential for 
spillages.   
There will be no process effluent discharge from the installation. Uncontaminated water from roof and hard 
standing run off will drain via a below ground surface water drainage system to attenuation tanks with the 
objective of recycling any uncontaminated water where possible. Any excess that can’t be reutilised within 
the installation is discharged to foul sewer.  
The installation will operate an Environment Management System in line with the requirements of ISO 
14001.  
There are two Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and 19 local wildlife sites (LWS) located within two 
kilometres of the installation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permit number 
EPR/QP3533ED 2 