 
 
Emission Limits and Monitoring Requirements 
 
The generators are only planned to operate for two hours per month with an 
annual one hour black building test as part of the maintenance regime to 
ensure integrity of plant operation. Based on this mode of operation, we have 
not set any emission limits or monitoring requirements for these generators. 
Furthermore, Article 30 para 8(a) of the IED states that, the Emission Limit 
Values (ELV’s) in Annex V do not apply to diesel generators.  
 
As there are no limits or monitoring requirements, condition 2.3.3 ‘The 
activities shall not operate for more than 500 hours in emergency use.’ has 
been included to restrict the hours of operation. The Operator will be required 
to record operating hours for each generator and the number of runs for each 
of the generators. Furthermore, the Operator will also ensure that  standby 
generators are well maintained in line with the operating techniques submitted 
in their application, in order  to minimise the likelihood of impact from air 
pollutants.  
 
Ecological Impacts 
 
There are two Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and 19 local wildlife 
sites (LWSs) located within two kilometres of the installation. 
 
An ecological assessment detailing the LWSs and SSSIs was submitted as 
part of the duly making request.  
 
Events 1 and 2  
 
For events 1 and 2, the modelling considers the long term impacts of NO
x and 
SO2 and the daily impacts from NOx compared to critical levels (CLe) and 
critical loads (CLo) at sensitive ecological receptors. The results indicate that 
exceedance of either CLes, nutrient nitrogen CLos or acid deposition CLos 
will not be likely.   
 
Check modelling carried out by our Air Quality Modelling Assessment Unit 
(AQMAU) supported the Operator’s conclusions that for events 1 and 2, the 
impacts at ecological receptors are not likely to be significant compared to the 
NO
x and SO2 CLes, nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition CLos.  
 
Event 3  
 
Under event 3, using annual met data, the modelling predicts exceedances of 
the 24 hour NO
x CLe at the two SSSIs and most of the LWSs. The applicant 
has analysed the probability of plant operating and predict no more than a 
0.3% probability that the short term NO
x CLe will be exceeded. However, this 
probability assessment does not take into account the statistical likelihood of 
operational hours coinciding with predicted exceedance days. As such this 
approach is conservative.  
 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 10 of 22 
 