 
 
Emissions of Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) 
 
Additional information, on the generator emission concentrations, was 
received as a result of a request for further information (Application Bespoke 
Schedule 5 Response – confirmation of NOx emission concentration, dated 
13/01/2016). This highlighted higher pollutant concentrations than those used 
in the original air dispersion modelling. However, after assessment of the 
results, we are satisfied that the revised emission concentrations for sulphur 
dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter (PM10) would not lead to exceedances of 
the relevant environmental quality standard (EQS) and the original 
conclusions can be used.  
 
The NO
x emission concentrations required more detailed assessment and 
therefore we carried out modelling sensitivity using the revised concentration. 
For the purpose of event 3, we re-evaluated the statistical likelihood of 
operating their emergency scenario for one 24 hour period every five years, 
which the Operator confirmed would be a more realistic scenario. The 
conclusions of this are: 
• it is unlikely that there would be any exceedances of the long term 
annual EQS of 40 ug/m3 at any of the receptors under all events; and 
• it is unlikely that under event 2 that there will be exceedances of the 
short term EQS of 200 ug/m3; 
• it is likely under events 1 and 3 there could be an exceedance of the 
short term EQS of 200 ug/m3. 
 
Currently on site only half of the generators have been installed across both 
data centres, six diesel generators in Data Centre 1 and six in Data Centre 2. 
The Operator has confirmed that the second 12 generators will have lower 
emissions of NO
x (less than 2000 mg/m3 compared to the existing generators 
which have a 4000 mg/m3 design). Therefore, we have included a pre 
operational condition (PO1) requiring the Operator to submit a report 
containing a comprehensive review of the best available generator options, 
prior to installing the outstanding 12 back up diesel generators. An 
improvement condition, IC2, has also been included requesting the Operator 
to carry out a detailed assessment of the emissions to air from the existing 12 
standby generators using the emission concentrations provided by the 
manufacturers.  
 
Emissions of Sulphur Dioxide and Particulate Matter 
 
Events 1 & 2 
 
The air quality assessment has modelled the impacts of events 1 and 2 
combined by calculating the total number of hours per year that each 
generator would operate, and modelling the operation as an equivalent 
number of hours. Following this principle the modelled scenario comprises 12 
generators running at full power for one hour once a week for 12 months (624 
hours). This is a reasonable approach for calculating the impact of annual 
average pollutant concentrations.  
 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 7 of 22 
 