 
 
quantities of waste items may be generated during routine maintenance 
activities. The site management system will include procedures for the 
collection and disposal or recovery of any waste oils and any other wastes 
that are generated.  
 
Based upon the information in the application, we are satisfied that the 
appropriate measures will be in place to prevent or where that is not 
practicable to minimise pollution from odour and waste. 
 
Noise and Vibration 
 
The application contained a noise impact assessment, undertaken by Sandy 
Brown Associates, which identified sensitive receptors, potential sources of 
noise from the installation and their noise attenuation measures. 
Measurements were taken from various locations around the site to establish 
existing noise levels. The measured background noise levels were used to 
derive ‘noise limits’ for normal and emergency operations. For noise 
assessments, for permit applications, BS4142 should be used rather than 
‘noise limits’. BS4142 assesses the impact of industrial and commercial sound 
on residential receptors by subtracting the measured background from the 
rating level. BS4142 states: “A difference of +10 dB or more is likely to be an 
indication of a significant adverse impact, depending on the context.” and “A 
difference of around +5 dB is likely to be an indication of an adverse impact, 
depending on the context.” 
 
The lowest measured background noise levels recorded during the 
assessment are 44 dBA in the daytime and 34 dBA in the night-time. The 
assessment predicts a noise level of 47 dBA at the most sensitive residential 
receptor. This is based on measured levels from existing operational 
generators and corrected to assume all proposed units in the nearest data 
centre (Data Centre 2) will be operating at full load. 
 
Making no rating corrections this would result in a difference of +3 dB and +13 
dB over the lowest measured background for daytime and night-time 
respectively.  This indicates no adverse impact during the daytime and 
significant adverse impact during the night time. However, the context of the 
operations needs to be taken into account. The generators are only likely to 
be operational infrequently, less than 4% of the year for maintenance and 
national grid failure of both Data Centres simultaneously. Maintenance is 
scheduled to be 1 hour for each unit per year and is likely to be during 
daytime hours. Grid failure is most likely due to overload during peak periods, 
which is normally daytime hours, or due to extreme weather conditions which 
are rare, difficult to predict and will change the soundscape significantly. 
Therefore, although the assessment indicates the potential for significant 
adverse noise impact at the most sensitive receptor during the night time, the 
probability of this occurring is likely to be very small. 
 
The generators will be housed within the main Data Centre buildings which 
will provide acoustic attenuation and screening. Furthermore, the exhaust 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 12 of 22 
 