 
 
We agree that under Event 3 it is unlikely there will be an exceedance of the 
24 hour NOx CLe at all SSSIs and most LWSs. The applicant predicts a 0.3% 
chance of this occurring. However, AQMAU checks show that this prediction 
is highly conservative and is likely to be substantially lower than this.  
Furthermore, event 3 was modelled on the scenario of five days once every 
five years, rather than the revised 24 hours once every five years. Therefore, 
these results are much more conservative than the more realistic event 3 
scenario.  
 
Emissions to Sewer 
 
The only emissions to sewer from the proposed facility comprises of domestic 
foul water from toilets, sinks, showers, condensate discharge from the 
mechanical plant and uncontaminated surface water that has not been utilised 
in the process.  
 
Data Centre 1 will be connected into the existing drainage system via new 
manholes. Data Centre 2 will connect to the head of the existing foul water 
system to the north east of Busy Bees nursery. The discharges from the 
installation connects to the existing Carlton Park foul discharge network and 
connects into the public foul sewer in King Edward Avenue to the south of the 
installation. 
 
Emissions to Water 
 
There will be no emissions to surface water from the proposed installation. 
 
Emissions to Land 
 
There will be no emissions to land from the proposed installation. 
 
Fugitive Emissions 
 
All raw materials are stored in secure containers within bunded areas. Bulk 
diesel storage tanks and associated pipework are double skinned and within 
subterranean enclosures. Each bulk storage tank is fitted with an overfill alarm 
float switch.  
 
Based on the information in the application we are satisfied that appropriate 
measures will be in place to prevent and/or minimise fugitive emissions.  
 
Odour and Waste 
 
The type of activity that will be carried out at the proposed facility is unlikely to 
give rise to odour issues.  
 
A waste management plan will be developed for the proposed site and 
reviewed every four years. There will be no waste accepted at the site. Waste 
will not be generated during normal operations. Waste oil would normally only 
occur during a spillage, contamination or degradation of the oil stocks. Small 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 11 of 22 
 