 
 
Key issues of the decision  
The Installation  
The installation is subject to the Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) 
as it carries out an activity listed in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the EPR:  
• Section 1.1 A(1) (a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated 
thermal input of 50 megawatts or more.  
And includes the following Directly Associated Activity (DAA): 
• Diesel bulk storage tanks, accompanying pipe work and fill points. 
 
The permit authorises the operation of standby diesel generators serving two 
data centres, in the event of failure in the electrical grid supply. Data Centre 1 
and Date Centre 2 are served by two separate feed supplies from the National 
Grid. The permit does not allow the export of electricity to the National Grid.  
 
The installation is located at Carlton Business Park, Narborough, 
Leicestershire. The site is centred approximately on National Grid reference 
453711,298245. Carlton Park is predominantly an office location, however, 
there is a leisure facility and nursery close to the site.  
 
The nearest residential properties are located approximately 60 metres west 
of Data Centre 2 and 250 metres west of Data Centre 1. The principal habitats 
are Enderby Warren Quarry and Narborough Bog which are designated as 
Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) and located 1.7 kilometres (km) and 
1.1 km from the installation, respectively. A number of Local Wildlife Sites 
(LWS) have also been identified, with the closest being Ashlands Crack 
Willow, located 985 metres from the site.  
 
The generators will be configured in two groups of six standby generators, 
making a total of 12 generators at each data centre and 24 generators across 
both data centres. Each generator has a full power thermal input of 4.49 
megawatts. The thermal capacity of the site is as follows:  
• 53.88 MWth (at Day 1); and 
• 107.76 MWth (at Day 2) 
 
Diesel fuel will be stored in four bulk fuel tanks, which are housed within 
subterranean bunkers. There will be two bunkers on each site, each 
containing two bulk fuel tanks. Each tank will have a capacity of 67,500 litres. 
The bulk tanks will be fitted with an overfill alarm float and overfill prevention 
valve. They will also be double skinned, as will the interconnecting pipe work.  
 
There will be no process effluent discharge from the installation.  
Uncontaminated water from roof and hard standing run off will drain via a 
below ground surface water drainage system to attenuation tanks with the 
EPR/QP3533ED/A001   Page 2 of 22 
 