 
Permit number                             
Error! Unknown document property name. 20 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC6 Short-term nitrogen oxides and dust concentrations - monitoring 
report 
 
A written report shall be submitted to the Environment Agency for 
assessment and written approval detailing the results and conclusions of 
the emissions monitoring and assessment undertaken in accordance 
with the monitoring proposals agreed by the Environment Agency under 
IC5. 
 
The report shall include: 
• a demonstration that appropriate monitoring location(s) were 
selected at the boundary of the site, or off site locations, taking 
into account the agreed monitoring proposal under IC5, the 
weather conditions prevalent at the time of the monitoring and 
any additional sensitive receptors identified; 
• a comparison of modelled data against monitored concentrations 
of nitrogen dioxide and dust; and  
• proposals for any ongoing monitoring or further assessment.    
 
Once approved in writing, the output of the monitoring exercise shall be 
used to inform / revise the AQMP and implement emission reduction 
measures, if necessary. Revisions to the AQMP and/or emission 
reduction measures shall be delivered in accordance with the timescales 
agreed in writing with the Environment Agency.  
Submit the written 
report within 4 
months of 
undertaking 
monitoring agreed 
under IC5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As agreed in 
writing with the 
Environment 
Agency  
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measures 
PO1 Commissioning 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit an updated 
commissioning plan for the engines associated with variation EPR/QP3706LH/V002 to 
the Environment Agency for approval. The plan shall provide timescales for the 
commissioning of the generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the 
generators is covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby 
minimising durations and impacts.  
 
When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted regular testing 
regime, the operator shall submit an environmental risk assessment for approval by 
the Environment Agency, demonstrating that the environmental risks during the 
commissioning are minimised and remain not significant. The commissioning of the 
engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the plan and associated 
environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency. 
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 
 
 