 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 4 of 28 
an equivalent. These are the international standards that we have concluded that 
we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   
The Operator has confirmed that the additional generators to be used at the data 
centre are emissions optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard. 
We do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
Installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent fuel resulting in negligible emissions of 
sulphur.  
Aqueous Releases from Site 
The Operator has confirmed that the Variation will not change the aqueous 
releases from site.  
 
Protection Against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation 
The choice and configuration of standby plant is driven by the data centre design.  
MCPs are configured to ensure an N+1 arrangement for each load group; when 
considering the operation of the new 40 generators in an emergency scenario, 36 
engines would run at 100% load with the remaining 4 act as swing engines. This 
ensures that during the maintenance of a generator, other engines are able to 
provide full cover in an emergency scenario.  
Power to the site is provided by the National Grid with two separate cables from 
the substation, increasing reliability of the system and reducing the likelihood of 
generators requiring use. The Operator notes that the National Grid Electricity 
Transmission System serving the site achieved an overall reliability supply of 
99.999998% over the 2023-2024 period. Furthermore, there have been only 4 
outages in the power supply from the Elstree substation in the last 10 years, in 
two instances the outage lasted less than three minutes, and in the other cases 
lasted 104 minutes and 300 minutes.  
Air Quality 
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) and the relevant parts of 
the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (Specified generators: dispersion modelling 
assessment - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) the Operator submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 