 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 24 of 28 
Agency detailing the Operator’s proposal for the implementation of the flue gas 
monitoring requirements specified in the permit.  
For new MCP, we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 
4 months of the issue date of the permit or the date when each new MCP is first 
put into operation, whichever is later (permit condition 3.5.2) unless otherwise 
agreed under Improvement Condition 3. 
Reporting 
We have added reporting in the permit for emissions to air for the new emission 
points A9 to A48 (new MCP). 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the 
standards specified in the Operating Techniques including the reporting of 
emissions to air. 
We have specified reporting to ensure the Operator notifies us of any operation 
of the standby generators in emergency mode in response to national grid power 
outage. 
Management system 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the Operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on Operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the 
guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to grant this 
permit Variation.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 