 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 8 of 28 
• PCs greater than 1% of the annual NOx critical level of 30 μg/m3 and 
PECs exceeding the critical level for Brent Reservoir SSSI for all 
scenarios. The NOx background concentration already exceeds the 
critical level.   
 
• PCs greater than 10% of the higher daily NOx critical level of 200 μg/m3 
and PECs exceeding the critical level for Brent Reservoir SSSI for the 
monthly testing and both emergency scenarios. The Consultant 
evidenced that ozone and sulphur background concentrations are below 
their respective critical levels and therefore the higher daily NOx critical 
level of 200 μg/m3 applies.  
 
• PCs greater than 1% of the nitrogen deposition critical load of 10 
kgN/ha/yr and PECs exceeding the critical load for Brent Reservoir 
SSSI for the combined testing and emergency scenarios. The 
Consultant noted “no critical loads are available for Brent Reservoir SSSI”, 
instead they utilised the critical load for broadleaved woodland as 
woodland is the habitat closest to the application site. 
 
Environment Agency review of Operator assessment of potential impact on 
air quality 
The Consultant has assessed potential impacts at human and ecological 
receptors for nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM10), sulphur dioxide 
(SO2), carbon monoxide (CO), and total organic carbon (TOC) as benzene. 
We have only audited NOx, as particulate matter, CO and TOC are considered to 
have a low risk of exceedance and we do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk 
from the operation of the Installation as we have included a condition in the 
permit restricting the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent fuel resulting in 
negligible emissions of sulphur. 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and 
sensitivity analysis on the air quality and habitats assessments presented by the 
Consultant which included: 
• Predictions for 48- and 72-hour emergency operation. 
• Our own meteorological data observed at Heathrow airport.  
• A higher surface roughness of 0.5m for the meteorological site.  
• Predictions with and without buildings. 
• A lower short-term NOx to NO2 conversion rate. 
• Relocation of human health receptors to the building façades. 
• Two additional local nature site receptors. 
 