 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 26 of 28 
take all appropriate measures to prevent or control pollution, in accordance 
with the relevant sector guidance and industry best practice. 
 
Summary of actions taken:  
With regard to appropriate permit conditions concerning the Operator’s Air 
Quality Assessment the following applies: 
• As described in more detail in the Air Quality Section above, the Operator 
submitted an Air Quality Risk Assessment that considered four main 
operational scenarios: two testing scenarios (monthly and six-monthly) 
and two emergency scenarios (outage) of 48 hours and 72 hours and the 
potential impact of those scenarios at 17 discrete human receptor 
locations, including residential properties, schools, leisure, commercial, 
industrial and retail.  
 
• We audited the Operator’s air quality assessment, including undertaking 
detailed check modelling and completing sensitivity analysis.   
 
• We agree with the Operator’s overall conclusions that the site is unlikely to 
cause an exceedance of an ES at human health receptors providing the 
electricity grid remains reliable. 
 
• We have set improvement condition (IC6) to require the Operator to 
reduce NOx emissions further by reviewing the testing regime and 
assessing other opportunities to reduce emissions. The additional 
measures specified under IC6 are expected to achieve a reduction of 
impacts during both the testing and emergency operations. 
 
With regard to appropriate permit conditions concerning appropriate measures to 
prevent or control pollution in accordance with the relevant sector guidance and 
industry best practice, the following applies: 
• As described in more detail in the Protection of Land, Surface Water & 
Groundwater section above, the Operator has provided evidence of 
pollution control and/ or prevention. We have also included PO2 for the 
Operator to undertake a review of all liquid storage, containment and 
bunds at the site. This review will be carried out by a qualified structural 
engineer and will compare all containment and bunds against the 
standards set out in CIRIA guidance: Containment systems for the 
prevention of pollution (C736). We have included this PO to satisfy 
ourselves that the site containment and bunding is fit for purpose. 
 