 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 13 of 28 
In support of the permit variation application, the Operator submitted an ‘Ecology 
Statement’. The report highlights, and we agree, that there are currently no 
critical loads for nitrogen and acid deposition for the habitats discussed in this 
assessment. 
We have checked APIS to understand the nitrogen and acid deposition values 
and sources. We have found that industrial combustion is not a source of 
nitrogen deposition at this site, signifying that there are no known sources of 
nitrogen emissions in the area which contribute or could increase the nitrogen 
load. All sources are attributed to other generators. In this context, based on the 
proposed activity’s intermittent emission profile and short duration, coupled with 
the low likelihood of activating the emergency scenarios and the operational 
conditions, we consider that nitrogen will potentially have an insignificant 
contribution to the nitrogen canvas. This reasoning is also applicable to the acid 
deposition concern. While we have found that 10.4% of sulphur deposition at 
Brent Reservoir SSSI comes from industrial combustion sources, this represents 
a Total Deposition of only 0.29 kgS/ha/yr. Therefore, it is likely that both nitrogen 
acid deposition, and sulphur is included in the background calculations for the 
emissions from the existing MCPs (Site 1). Therefore, the exceedance rates for 
these parameters, including NOx, are likely to have been partially double counted 
in the dispersion modelling. 
We have consulted with the Environment Agency internal Fisheries, Biodiversity 
and Geomorphology (FBG) team. They had concerns over the impact on wildlife 
and flora found in Local Wildlife Sites (LWS) potentially impacted by the proposed 
activity. However,  following ‘ The Conservation of Habitats and Species 
Regulations 2017’ , legislation governing the format of the present assessment, 
LWS are not part of this assessment which is concerned with Sites of Special 
Scientific Interest. Furthermore, the species protection over which the FBG team 
raised concerns are not qualifying f eatures of the Brent Reservoir SSSI. We note 
that the potential impacts on LWS is conducted under different legislation, namely 
the Environment Act 1995  and the Natural Environment and Rural Communities 
Act (NERC) 2006 – neither of these documents are captured under the Appendix 
4 Assessment, which is concerned with SSSI only. 
However, we have considered the FBG opinion in our assessment and addressed 
it below. 
To maintain the integrity of the habitats and species present in the Brent 
Reservoir SSSI, some of which are highly mobile and are likely to travel to 
adjacent protected sites, including LWS, we consider that there is no damaging 
impact if the following operational limitations are included in the environmental 
permit: 
• Testing of site 1 and site 2 shall not be carried out in the same 24-hour 
period. 
• Testing at site 1 shall involve each generator being tested individually. 