 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 27 of 28 
Representations from individual members of the public 
Brief summary of issues raised:  
1. The proposal to install 40 new generators that do not meet the 2G 
standard and do not have Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) fitted for a 
site located in an AQMA is unacceptable.  
 
2. The site is located within an area of poor air quality with exceedances of 
the NO2 standards. The current proposal is unacceptable and if approved 
would create a precedent for other data centre Operators to do the same 
and ignore the requirements from the EA FAQ document. 
 
Summary of actions taken:  
With regards to the new engines not meeting the 2G standard and not having 
SCR fitted for a site in an AQMA, the following applies: 
• As described in more detail in the Point Source Emissions to Air section 
above, the Operator has taken measures to minimise emissions from the 
gas oil or equivalent fuel generators under emergency, testing and 
maintenance scenarios. 
   
• Both the Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach v21 and Emergency 
backup diesel engines on installations: best available techniques (BAT) - 
GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) specifies the BAT emissions specification for new 
gas oil fired reciprocating engines as emissions optimised to 2g-TA Luft or 
US EPA Tier 2 or an equivalent. These are the international standards that 
we have concluded that we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   
 
• The Operator has confirmed that the additional generators to be used at 
the data centre are emissions optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 
standard.  
 
With regards to the site being located within an area of poor air quality with 
exceedances of the NO2 standards, the following applies: 
• As described in more detail in the Air Quality Section above, the Operator 
submitted an Air Quality Risk Assessment that considered four main 
operational scenarios: two testing scenarios (monthly and six-monthly) 
and two emergency scenarios (outage) of 48 hours and 72 hours and the 
potential impact of those scenarios at 17 discrete human receptor 
locations, including residential properties, schools, leisure, commercial, 
industrial and retail.   
 