 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 3 of 28 
Key issues of the decision 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) Assessment – Emergency Power 
Provision on Site 
Technology & Fuel 
The Operator carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies and fuel 
capable of providing emergency power at the data centre. 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that gas oil or equivalent fuel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators. Currently gas oil or equivalent fuel generators 
are the preferred option for the supply of standby power for data centres and are 
a proven technology for providing reliable resilience of functionality which can be 
started from cold very quickly.  
We have specified the fuel to be burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a 
maximum sulphur content of 0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing 
our position on the use of gas oil substitute fuels such as hydrotreated vegetable 
oil (HVO), therefore we have required that if any of these fuels are proposed, 
written agreement is sought by the Operator from the Environment Agency’s 
regulatory officer. The Operator confirmed that it is anticipated that the units will 
primarily be run using HVO. Low sulphur gas oil will be used to run the 
generators if required as an alternative. The Operator is already permitted to use 
gas oil or an agreed equivalent substitute. 
Managing Emissions 
Point Source Emissions to Air 
Emissions to air from the Installation will principally comprise combustion gases 
arising from the operation of the generation plant under emergency, testing and 
maintenance scenarios.  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the Installation are nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10) and sulphur dioxide (SO2).  
The Operator has taken measures to minimise emissions from the gas oil or 
equivalent fuel generators under emergency, testing and maintenance scenarios.  
Both the Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach v21 and Emergency backup 
diesel engines on installations: best available techniques (BAT) - GOV.UK 
(www.gov.uk) specifies the BAT emissions specification for new gas oil fired 
reciprocating engines as emissions optimised to 2g-TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or 