 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 12 of 28 
We have therefore, consulted our Habitats Team on the exceedances at Brent 
Reservoir SSSI for annual NOx and nitrogen deposition for the testing scenarios 
to see if there are likely significant effects. 
HRA Team Assessment  
Appendix 4 – SSSI 
An Appendix 4 SSSI Assessment was carried out on Brent Reservoir SSSI. 
Based on the results shown in the AQA, NOx critical level (CLe) of 30 μg/m3 and 
nitrogen deposition critical load (CLo) of 10 kgN/ha/yr for all scenarios exceed the 
insignificance screening thresholds. Similarly, exceedances of the daily NOx CLe 
of 75 μg/m3 and 200 μg/m3 at Brent Reservoir SSSI have also been reported 
under emergency scenarios. However, these exceedances are only possible if 
the Installation will operate continuously (8,760h/yr) in parallel. In reality, the 
operating times will be those shown in the scenarios described above. As such, 
the volume and emission rates will be expected to be much lower than those 
modelled in the conservative scenario. We note that the likelihood of emergency 
operations taking place is a more important factor in considering the risks of daily 
NOx critical level exceedance. Historic data provided by the Operator indicates 
that the grid reliability at the Installation site appears to be good, the likelihood of 
the emergency scenario occurring is expected to be low. 
For monthly testing, we understand the maximum daily hours of operation for site 
1 to be 8 hours and for site 2 to be 2.5 hours; if these are applied as operational 
restrictions, we do not find exceedances of daily NOx. For six-monthly testing we 
have considered the maximum number of hours they could operate to avoid an 
exceedance. If we restrict six-monthly testing to a maximum of 8-hours of 
operation within a 24-hour period, we do not find exceedances of daily NOx. 
Our specialist Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) has checked 
the AQA and provided the following recommendations: 
• Testing of site 1 and site 2 shall not be carried out in the same 24-hour 
period. 
• Testing at site 1 shall involve each generator being tested individually. 
• For six-monthly testing, no more than 8 hours of operation shall be carried 
out in any 24-hour period. 
• For monthly testing, no more than 8 hours of operation shall be carried out 
in any 24-hour period for site 1. 
• For monthly testing, no more than 2.5 hours of operation shall be carried 
out in any 24-hour period for site 2. 
 
We concur with these recommendations and consider that it is appropriate to be 
included in the permit as operational restrictions. 