 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 16 of 28 
• All tanks are stiffened in accordance with BS 799-5:2010. 
• BS EN 12285-2. 
 
The bulk fuel tanks have leak detection in place which alarms if fuel is detected 
within the secondary containment. There is also remote monitoring of tank levels 
with alarms that sound if there is a change in fuel levels. All alarms are linked to 
the local control system and BMS system. The tanks will be protected against 
corrosion internally by being treated with an anticorrosion coating and externally 
by being painted to C3 standards. 
Fuel Dump Tanks 
There are two dump tanks on site – one within the north tank room and one 
within the south tank room. Each of the day (belly) tanks in the generator rooms 
will be fitted with a dump valve. In the event of a fire in the generator room, the 
dump valve opens and drains the fuel into the dump tank on the ground floor and 
then pumped from the dump tanks into the bulk storage tanks. 
Positioning of the tanks within a building with impervious surfacing limits potential 
risks to land, surface water and groundwater. Spill kits will be available within the 
building, and visual external inspections of tanks will be undertaken daily. 
Fuel delivery points are located to the north and south of the enclosed building 
(serving the north tank room and south tank room respectively). The area is over 
hardstanding, with all surface water drainage leading to two new interceptors.  
Pipework 
All pipework is constructed from heavy duty welded carbon steel and conforms to 
Guidance for Pollution Prevention 2. All pipework located outside of secondary 
containment, or out of sight of Operators will be double skinned, i.e. between fill 
point and bulk tank room, as well as within pipework risers to generator 
plantrooms. 
The pipework will be inspected regularly, and leaks will be detected by the 
manual inspection of outer skin at low points. The secondary containment is 
monitored with automated leak detection with an alarm to the local control system 
and BMS system. 
Fuel Delivery Areas, Drainage & Interceptors 
Two new fuel delivery areas will be installed as part of this Variation (north car 
park and south car park). The delivery areas will have impermeable surfacing 
and will drain to oil/water interceptors.  
Two new oil/water interceptors will be installed as part of this Variation (north car 
park and south car park). The two new interceptors will have a capacity of 10,000 
litres, each covering a 720m3 drainage area. The tankers that make the deliveries 