 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 7 of 28 
Testing scenarios do not take place in the same month, with the monthly testing 
occurring once a month for 10 months of the year and the 6-monthly testing 
occurring during the remaining 2 months. 
Emergency (outage) Scenario 
The emergency scenario assumes 16 (site 1) and 36 (site 2) SBGs operate 
concurrently at 75% and 100% load, respectively. Each site has 4 generators 
dedicated as ‘swing’ generators, which would not operate under an emergency 
scenario except in the unlikely event that other generators were non-operational. 
To represent this within the modelling for site 1, the Consultant modelled all 16 
generators at 75% load rather than 12 at 100% load. The Consultant presented 
the modelling outputs for 48-hours of emergency operation within their AQA and 
72-hours within their second addendum. Within the first addendum the 
Consultant states “There is a contractual obligation for PDCG (Group Services) 
Ltd to keep a maximum 48 hours of fuel on site”. 
Their conclusions were: 
Impact on Human Health Receptors 
• No exceedances of the annual or 1-hour NO2 or NO ES at discrete 
human receptor locations for the testing scenarios. 
 
• Exceedances of the 1-hour NO2 ES for the emergency scenario. 
Although they have not presented their hourly NO2 predictions against the 
US EPA Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGLs), we have identified 
they predict potential exceedances of both 1-hour and 10-minute AEGL-1 
for their emergency scenarios.  
 
• Predicted by means of hypergeometric distribution analysis that the 
probability of an exceedance of the hourly mean NO2 ES was less than 
5% (unlikely) for the 48-hour emergency scenario, therefore exceedances 
are unlikely. For the 72-hour emergency the probability of exceedance 
was greater than 5% and therefore there is potential for exceedances.   
 
Impact on Ecological Receptors 
• PCs greater than 100% of the daily NOx critical level of 200 μg/m3 for 
both emergency scenarios for all receptors, except Metropolitan Line 
between Kilburn and Neasdon LWS and Meadow Way Copse LWS. All 
other PCs were predicted to be less than 100% (insignificant) of all 
critical levels and loads for all local nature sites for all scenarios.  
 