Variation and consolidation  
application number  
EPR/QP3706LH/V002  3 
The contingency standby power solution comprises 56x 7.31 MWth (new MCP) gas oil or equivalent fuelled 
generators with an aggregated thermal input of 409.36 MWth.  
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft or US EPA Tier 2 (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration 
of 2000 mg/m3. The operator has confirmed that all generators in use at the data centre are compliant with 
the US EPA Tier 2 standard. 
The generators can operate on either gas oil or an agreed equivalent substitute.  
 
The data centre generators will only operate under a limited scheduled programme of routine testing and 
maintenance or in an emergency site power outage scenario. Electrical power is normally provided to the 
data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in this electrical supply, the operator will 
utilise the generators to maintain an electrical power supply to the site. The generators will be used solely for 
the purpose for generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the Installation. 
 
Each generator on site 1 (LON1B1) has its own double skinned day (belly) tank (1,200 litres) and its own 
dedicated bulk fuel storage tank (42,000 litres). Each generator on site 2 (LON1B2) has its own double 
skinned day (belly) tank (1,200 litres). Site 2 (LON1B2) also has 20 bulk fuel storage tanks (ranging from 
31,500 litres to 61,000 litres) across the site which represent 1 storage tank per 2 generators. However, 
these tanks act together as a larger balancing tank and are not dedicated to the pair of ta nks which they 
serve. The tanks are positioned at ground level below each engine and have leak detection. The total fuel 
storage capacity is 1,884,700 litres.  
The Installation falls under the following Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) Schedule 1 listed 
activity description: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) - Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts.  
 
On site 1 (LON1B1) exhaust gases from each pair of generators will be discharged through a common plenum 
at 8 emission points A1 a/b to A8 a/b.  On site 2 (LON1B2) exhaust gases from each generator will be 
discharged through their own individual stacks at 40 emission points A9 to A48. 
 
There will be no process effluent discharge from the Installation. Uncontaminated surface water run -off from 
the roof and hard-standing will drain via oil-water separators to the surface water drainage system at emission 
points W1 and W2.  
 
The Installation is within the 2 km screening distance of the Brent Reservoir Site of Special Scientific Interest 
(SSSI) and a number of wildlife sites, however no significant environmental impact from the Installation is 
expected there. 
There will be an Environmental Management System (EMS) in place based on the ISO 14001 standard.  
 
The schedules specify the changes made to the permit. 
The status log of a permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number.  