 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 21 of 28 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as 
insignificant 
Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide 
(CO), particulate matter (with a diameter less than 10 microns (PM10)) and total 
organic carbon (TOC) as benzene have been screened out as insignificant, and 
so we agree that the Operator’s proposed techniques are Best Available 
Techniques (BAT) for the Installation.  
We consider that the emission limits included in the Installation permit reflect the 
BAT for the sector. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting permit condition 
2.3.6, operation of generators in an emergency is limited to 500 hours per year.  
Furthermore, testing for each MCP is limited to 13 hours per engine per year.  
Therefore, emissions to air are minimised which will aid the delivery of national 
air quality targets. We do not consider that we need to include any additional 
conditions in this permit. 
Updating permit conditions during consolidation 
We have updated permit conditions to those in the current generic permit 
template as part of permit consolidation. The conditions will provide the same 
level of protection as those in the previous permit. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
pre-operational conditions. The following pre-operational conditions (POs) have 
been included in the permit: 
PO1 - Commissioning  
The Operator shall submit an updated commissioning plan for the engines 
associated with Variation EPR/QP3706LH/V002 to the Environment Agency for 
approval. The plan shall provide timescales for the commissioning of the 
generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the generators is 
covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising 
durations and impacts.  