 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 25 of 28 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance, and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate Operators because the standards 
applied to the Operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section 
Response received from UK HSA 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
Recommendations that when considering appropriate permit conditions: 
1. UKHSA’s expectation is that the levels off-site in the event of a power failure, 
which will be many times those seen during staggered generator testing, are 
transparently provided and the levels compared to health standards for those 
off-site. The Operator could consider comparison with the US Environmental 
Protection Agency’s (EPA) Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGL) for 
Airborne Chemicals. For reference, the UK Health and Safety Executive’s 
(HSE) EH40/2005 Workplace exposure limits (WELs) notes the Short-term 
exposure limit (15-minute reference period) nitrogen dioxide is 1.91 mg.m-3.   
 
2. The Environment Agency should satisfy itself that the Operator has measures 
in place to manage both prolonged emergency-running of the generators, 
considering the potential for exceedance of the hourly NO2 air quality 
standard during emergency operations, and also the prevention of short-term 
impacts on human receptors.  
 
3. Reducing public exposures to non-threshold pollutants such as nitrogen 
dioxide to below air quality standards has potential public health benefits. We 
support approaches which minimise or mitigate public exposure to non-
threshold air pollutants and address inequalities (in exposure) and encourage 
their consideration during site design, operational management, and 
regulation. This consultation response assumes that the permit holder shall 