 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 17 of 28 
are compartmented into 7,600 litre compartments. Therefore, the maximum fuel 
spillage is 7,500 litres, which the oil/water interceptors would capture. The spilt 
fuel would then be pumped out of the interceptors by a registered waste disposal 
company. 
The interceptors will be maintained in accordance with manufacturers guidance. 
The interceptors are monitored and alarmed to the BMS system, which measures 
the oil levels. There will be an inspection twice per year, with alarm probes 
removed and cleaned. 
Drainage areas will be visually inspected daily to identify any defects that may 
affect the integrity and operational efficiency of the interceptors, or risk of leaks to 
land/groundwater. 
Although there will be the installation of two new interceptors, the existing 
emission points to water will not change. The new drainage system installed as 
part of this Variation, links in with the site’s existing drainage system which 
discharges to emission points W1 and W2 as already permitted. 
We have included a Pre-operational Condition (PO2) for the Operator to 
undertake a review of all liquid storage, containment and bunds at the site. This 
review will be carried out by a qualified structural engineer and will compare all 
liquid storage, containment and bunds against the standards set out in CIRIA 
guidance: Containment systems for the prevention of pollution (C736). We have 
included this PO to satisfy ourselves that the site’s liquid storage, containment 
and bunding is fit for purpose. 
Noise 
Noise is not a significant aspect of data centre permitting (noting that it is only the 
standby generators and associated gas oil or equivalent fuel supply systems that 
are permitted – not the operation of the data centre itself). The site will only run 
the generators regularly as part of the testing regimes described earlier, 
occurring during daytime hours. Overnight operation of the generators will only 
occur in an emergency situation.  
We have reviewed the requirement for a Noise Impact Assessment using our 
qualitative noise screening criteria. Based on the nature of the Installation and its 
location, the limited hours of operation and the proposed noise mitigation 
measures, we anticipate that the risk of noise impacts will not be significant.   
Consequently, the assessment confirmed that a Noise Impact Assessment and 
Noise Management Plan are not required. If a Noise Impact Assessment was 
required, then the Operator would need to submit a Noise Impact Assessment 
based on The Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016. 
However, we have included our standard noise condition in the permit, which 
allows us to ask for a Noise Management Plan if we become aware of noise-
related problems on site. 