 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 10 of 28 
• We cannot rule out exceedances of the higher daily NOx critical level of 
200 μg/m3 at any ecological receptor for either emergency scenario. We 
also cannot rule out exceedances of annual NOx and nitrogen deposition 
at Brent Reservoir SSSI for the emergency scenarios. 
 
• We note that the likelihood of emergency operations taking place is a 
more important factor in considering the risks of daily NOx critical level 
exceedance. Historic data provided by the Operator indicates that the grid 
reliability at the Installation site appears to be good, the likelihood of the 
emergency scenario occurring is expected to be low. 
 
 
Overall, we find that: 
Human Health 
The site is unlikely to cause an exceedance of an ES at human health receptors 
in both testing and emergency scenarios providing the electricity grid remains 
high.  
Habitats 
Emergency (outage) Scenario 
The Consultant’s modelling and our audit predicts possible exceedances of the 
daily mean NOx critical level should prolonged emergency operations coincide 
with worst-case meteorological conditions, at all LWSs during emergency 
operation. However, the modelling is based on a worst-case and we consider that 
emergency operation is unlikely to occur provided grid reliability remains high. 
The Consultant confirmed that the likelihood of long periods of reliance on the 
generators to provide power to the site is considered to be highly unlikely given 
that the National Grid Electricity Transmission System, which serves the site, 
achieved an overall reliability supply of 99.999998% over the 2023-2024 period. 
Furthermore, there have been only 4 outages in the power supply from the 
Elstree substation in the last 10 years, in two instances the outage lasted less 
than three minutes, and in the other cases lasted 104 minutes and 300 minutes.  
The structural preventative measures taken to avoid the occurrence of this 
emergency scenario make the source/pathway/receptor mechanism very unlikely 
to occur. For the Installation, we consider that the reasonably likely 
source/pathway/receptor mechanism would consist of periodic testing operations 
of the engines. For the testing scenarios our audit showed that process 
contributions at all LWSs are predicted to be below 100% of the ES. 
Although we cannot rule out exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level at 
LWSs, we note that the likelihood of emergency operations taking place is a 
more important factor in considering the risks of daily mean NOx critical level 