 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 22 of 28 
We have included this pre-operational condition as the risk assessment 
submitted with the application does not cover the commissioning phase.  
 
PO2 - Containment 
The Operator shall undertake a review of all liquid storage, bunds and secondary 
containment at the site and submit a written report to the Environment Agency for 
assessment and written approval.  
We have included this pre-operational condition to satisfy ourselves that the 
liquid storage, bunding and secondary containment is fit for purpose. 
 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. The following improvement conditions (ICs) have 
been included in the permit: 
IC3 - Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
We have specified that the Operator shall have an updated written monitoring 
plan (including monitoring of emissions from engines associated with Variation 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002) to ensure that they comply with the monitoring 
requirements of the permit. 
IC4 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
We have specified that the Operator shall have an updated written Air Quality 
Management Plan (AQMP) (including emissions from engines associated with 
Variation EPR/QP3706LH/V002) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency 
running of the plant and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 
hours, as far as possible. This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the 
receptors. The Operator is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop 
this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered.  
IC5 - Short-term nitrogen oxides and dust concentrations - monitoring plan 
We have specified that the Operator details their proposals and subsequently 
undertakes a monitoring programme to verify the predicted short-term nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) and dust concentrations at the boundary of the site or off-site 
locations of sensitive receptors as appropriate. 
IC6 - Short-term nitrogen oxides and dust concentrations - monitoring 
report 
We have specified that the Operator submits a report detailing the results and 
conclusions of the emissions monitoring undertaken as part of IC5. This will 
contribute to the validation of conclusions reached in the air quality assessment 