 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 14 of 28 
• For six-monthly testing, no more than 8 hours of operation shall be carried 
out in any 24-hour period. 
• For monthly testing, no more than 8 hours of operation shall be carried out 
in any 24-hour period for site 1. 
• For monthly testing, no more than 2.5 hours of operation shall be carried 
out in any 24-hour period for site 2. 
 
Following our assessment, we find that the proposed permission is not likely to 
damage any of the flora, fauna or geological or physiological features which are 
of special interest. 
Overall, we agree with the Consultant’s conclusions that the site is unlikely to 
cause an exceedance of an ES at human health receptors and is unlikely to 
make a significant contribution to or cause an exceedance of any critical loads 
and levels at ecological receptors providing operational restrictions are included 
in the permit and the electricity grid remains reliable. 
We do note that the site has a very large number of unabated plant in close 
proximity to residential receptors (<300 m). The Operator has not proposed 
abatement on any of the generators, however, if emissions to air become a 
problem at this site, the Operator may be required to fit abatement in the form of 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) or to at least get the generators SCR-ready 
(i.e. planned with available space to retrofit equipment for abating emissions).  
In the same way, if the site wishes to expand in the future, the Operator may be 
expected to go beyond BAT and fit SCR to manage the impact of peak emissions 
from emergency operation and/or testing and maintenance on long term Air 
Quality Standards as per our guidance contained in Data Centre FAQ Headline 
Approach v21. 
We have set improvement condition (IC6) to require the Operator to reduce NOx 
emissions further by reviewing the testing regime and assessing other 
opportunities to reduce emissions (e.g. SCR abatement). The additional 
measures specified under IC6 are expected to achieve a reduction of impacts 
during both the testing and emergency operations.  
Protection of Land, Surface Water & Groundwater 
The 40 new generators are housed in a fully enclosed building, situated in pairs, 
and over 5 floors (8 per floor); each generator has its own day (belly) tank.  
Site 2 (LON1B2) also has 20 bulk fuel storage tanks which represent 1 storage 
tank per 2 generators. However, these tanks act together as a larger balancing 
tank and are not dedicated to the pair of tanks which they serve. 
The tanks are positioned underneath the engines at ground level, minimising 
pipe-runs and pumping distances to point of use.  