 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 23 of 28 
and inform the air quality management plan. IC6 also requires the Operator to 
review the options for reducing the predicted emission impacts. The reduction 
measures are expected to achieve a reduction of impacts during both the 
maintenance/testing and emergency operations. In setting IC5 and IC6 we have 
considered the level of the NOx peaks predicted by the Operator’s modelling. 
Emission limits 
No emission limits have been added, amended or deleted as a result of this 
Variation. 
As the plant is limited to less than 500 hours of emergency operation by permit 
condition 2.3.3 and less than 50 hours for maintenance and testing in permit 
table S1.2, air emission limits are not applicable. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular: 
We have added monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from new emission 
points A9 to A48 (new MCP), with a minimum frequency of once every 1500 
hours of operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring 
has been included in the permit in order to comply with the requirements of the 
Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 2015 which specifies the minimum 
requirements for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the 
reduced operating hours of the plant.  
We have also added monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from new 
emission points A9 to A48 (new MCP), with the same frequency specified for the 
monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we 
have applied our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited 
monitoring, to happen in concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is 
proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of NOx from the 
Installation.   
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
Installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set an Improvement Condition (IC3) requesting the Operator to submit 
an updated monitoring plan (including monitoring of emissions from engines 
associated with Variation EPR/QP3706LH/V002) for approval by the Environment 