 
EPR/QP3706LH/V002 Decision Document      Page 9 of 28 
Human Health Assessment 
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the Operator’s 
numerical values, the outcome of our checks indicate the following: 
• The Operator’s testing scenario predictions are unlikely to make a 
significant contribution or cause an exceedance of an Environmental 
Standard (ES) at human health receptors.  
 
• We cannot rule out exceedances of the 1-hour mean NO2 ES, 10-minute 
NO2 AEGL-1 and the 1-hour NO EAL for the emergency scenario. 
 
• We understand from the Operator that the likelihood of emergency 
operation taking place is considered low as grid outages are unlikely 
based on historic data, therefore, the likelihood of exceedances of any 
of the ES is considered low. 
 
Habitats Assessment 
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the Operator’s 
numerical predictions, the outcome of our checks indicate the following: 
• In the case of the testing scenarios, all PECs are predicted to be within 
the critical levels and loads at all local nature site receptors. 
 
• We predict exceedances of the annual NOx critical level of 30 μg/m3 and 
nitrogen deposition critical load of 10 kgN/ha/yr at Brent Reservoir SSSI 
for the testing scenarios. We note that the background NOx and nitrogen 
deposition concentrations are already exceeding the respective critical 
level and load. We note that the physical extent of the exceedances is 
limited to the easterly section of the SSSI which lies directly to the north of 
to the Installation site.  
 
• We find exceedances of daily NOx at Brent Reservoir SSSI for both 
testing scenarios if we do not apply restrictions on the daily operational 
hours: 
o For monthly testing, we understand the maximum daily hours of 
operation for site 1 to be 8 hours and for site 2 to be 2.5 hours; if 
these are applied as operational restrictions, we do not find 
exceedances of daily NOx. 
 
o The current permit (ERP/QP3706LH/A001) restricts the six-monthly 
testing to one 4-hour test per day. For six-monthly testing we have 
considered the maximum number of hours they could operate to 
avoid an exceedance. If we restrict six-monthly testing to a 
maximum of 8-hours of operation within a 24-hour period, we do 
not find exceedances of daily NOx. 