EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  5 
under IED/MCPD. Therefore ELVs, to air and engine emissions monitoring, are not required within the 
permit. However, the Environment Agency expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised 
to minimise occasions and durations (subject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market. Also it provides a clear way 
to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air for ‘emergency plant’. 
In line with our guidance (Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach, 2018) operations and management 
procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, 
phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and most 
importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant background levels. 
The permit application must assess and provide evidence of actual reliability data for the local electricity grid 
distribution (including data centre internal electrical design) for the EA to judge the realistic likelihood of the 
plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode (especially if emissions model so as 
to exceed short term air quality standards). 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) requires both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
 
Emissions to Sewer 
The only emissions to sewer from the site comprise of surface water run-off and sanitary effluent and 
occasional condensate discharges from clean water tank flushing, chiller systems and air conditioning units. 
The surface water drainage arrangements of each of the buildings (North, North 2, East and West) are 
discussed below: 
North Building 
Surface water runoff drains to the surface water drainage system and then either discharges off site into the 
municipal sewer, or discharges into the onsite foul water drainage system prior to off-site discharge into the 
municipal drainage system. 
Oil interceptors are present on the surface water drainage system serving on site roads, surface water runoff 
in car parking and tank refuelling areas of the site. Surface water runoff from the fuel delivery area, fuel fill 
point and the fuel tank room for North Building does not drain via oil interceptors. To reduce the risk of spilt 
fuel entering the site’s drainage system, all fuel deliveries require a permit prior to delivery. The permit 
requires that drainage grids within the fuel delivery area are covered during fuel delivery. Additionally, the 
driver must remain with the vehicle at all times during fuel delivery. The Operator is currently investigating 
the opportunity to install an oil interceptor on the surface water drainage system around the North Building or 
to divert the surface water runoff in this area via an existing oil interceptor. An improvement condition, IC3, 
has been set requiring them to outline which option they will proceed with following the investigation.  
North 2 Building  
Surface water runoff drains to the surface water drainage system and is discharged off site into the municipal 
sewer. Surface water runoff from the bulk diesel tank refuelling area passes via an oil interceptor. 
East Building and West Building  
Surface water runoff drains to the surface water drainage system and then discharges into the onsite foul 
water drainage system prior to off-site discharge into the municipal drainage system; an exception to this is 
some roof runoff for part of the East Building which discharges direct to municipal sewer. Surface water 
runoff from the bulk diesel tank refuelling areas passes via an oil interceptor. 
 
 