EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  2 
Key issues of the decision 
Description of the installation 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Section 1.1 Part A(1) (a) activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 megawatts or more. The installation also includes a Directly Associated Activity (DAA) for diesel bulk 
storage tanks, accompanying pipe work and fill points. 
The combustion plant currently comprises 19 diesel fuelled standby generators (SBG), with space for the 
installation of a further 8 SBGs. We have considered all 27 SBGs during the determination of this permit. The 
aggregated total rated thermal input (under standby power operating conditions) is approximately 145MWth. 
No electricity will be exported from the installation.   
The site has the capacity for the storage of 383,440 litres of diesel fuel. Diesel storage tanks are located 
above and below ground and the Applicant has confirmed they are compliant with the Oil Storage 
Regulations. See storage and containment section below for further information. 
Each SBG has a dedicated stack to aid the dispersion of the engine flue gases. The stack release heights for 
each building areas follows; North – 39.1m x 6 stacks, East Building – 27.3m x 5 stacks, West Building – 
28.5m x 4 stacks (with a future additional 4 stacks) and North 2 Building – 62.0m x 4 stacks (with a future 
additional 4 stacks). 
The SBGs are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all the generators will fire up 
then subsequently ramp down to meet the load demand at the site. Even in a worst case blackout scenario, 
whilst all 27 SBGs would start up they will not operate at full capacity. The operational capacity of the 
generators at the time of a blackout would be dependent on extent of blackout. 
All the generators are subject to a testing schedule which is as follows:  
 3 monthly testing – off-load testing during maintenance. 1 hour per test every 3 months, equates to 4 
hours total per generator per year. 
 Annual UPS wrap around maintenance - 4 hours per test every 3 months (except West building 
which has 10 hours per test). 16 hours per generator per year (40 hours for generators in West 
Building). 
 Part load tests - six times per year, 2 or 4 hours per test per generator. 24 hours per generator per 
year. 
 Non routine operation – 3 monthly Black Building Tests, where the generators are started, 
synchronised and take the associated building load. 4 hours per test every 3 months, equates to 16 
hours total per generator per year. 
 
The planned generator testing and maintenance involves all SBGs in the building running at the same time. 
Each building is scheduled to occur at separate times during the month to limit the generation of emissions 
to air. 
 
During normal operation (i.e. limited to testing/maintenance), the SBGs will each operate for approximately 
60 hours (84 hours for West Building) per year. This is considered to be a worst case scenario, and 
Telehouse aims to reduce these operating hours more typically to 50 hours or less per year. 
The site is located on Coriander Avenue within the Docklands area of London. The National Grid Reference 
for the site is TQ 38770 81090. The site is approximately 2.6 hectares in size. The surrounding area is 
predominantly commercial and residential in use. 
There are no point source emissions to surface water associated with the operation of the SBGs or fuel 
storage. Emissions of aqueous wastes from the site is limited to surface water run-off and sanitary effluent 
and occasional condensate discharges from clean water tank flushing, chiller systems and air conditioning 
units. Surface water runoff discharges to sewer via the site’s surface water and foul water drainage systems. 
Oil interceptors are present on the surface water drainage system serving on site roads, car parking and tank 
refuelling areas. 
 