EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  8 
Storage and Containment 
Diesel storage tanks are located above and below ground and are compliant with the Oil Storage 
Regulations. Each SBG has its own day tank with the exception of West Building where two day tanks serve 
four SBGs on each floor. The day tanks are of single skin steel construction.  
Depending on their location, any leakage from the day tanks would be contained in the bunded generator 
hall/bunded day tank rooms/bunded steel container units. The day tanks each have high level alarms and 
auto shutoff devices.  
In addition to the day tanks, diesel is also stored at the site in bulk tanks below ground. However, for the 
North Building the bulk storage tanks are above ground in two bunded tank rooms. The below ground tanks 
are double skinned steel construction. The above ground tanks are single skinned and bunded to contain 
110% of the tank capacity. All tanks have leak detection fitted, have overfill indication and audible alarms.  
Remote fill points are used for the bulk storage tanks, which have drip trays to capture any minor spillages. 
The tanks have a level metre and high level alarm. The pipelines from the bulk storage to the buildings 
consist of double skinned flooded buried lines. The pipework is painted or constructed using corrosion 
resistant material to minimise risk of corrosion.  
As a result of the requirements of the Industrial Emissions Directive, all permits are now required to contain a 
condition relating to protection of soil, groundwater and groundwater monitoring.  However, the Environment 
Agency’s H5 Guidance states that it is only necessary for the operator to take samples of soil or groundwater 
and measure levels of contamination where there is evidence that there is, or could be existing 
contamination. 
We are satisfied that there are sufficient measures in place to ensure there is adequate protection of soil and 
groundwater from these operations and that there is no evidence of historic contamination. Periodic 
monitoring will be required at least once every 5 years for groundwater and 10 years for soil, unless such 
monitoring is based on a systematic appraisal of the risk of contamination, condition 3.1.2. 
 
 
 
 
 