EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  6 
Emissions to Surface Water and Land 
There will be no emissions to surface water or land from the installation. 
 
Noise and Vibration 
The application contained a noise impact assessment, undertaken by SLR Consulting Limited, which 
identified sensitive receptors and potential sources of noise from the installation. The primary noise sources 
on the site are the SBGs, chillers and fans.  
The assessment was completed in line with British Standard 4142 which assess the impact of industrial and 
commercial sound on residential receptors by subtracting the measure background from the rating level. 
BS4142 states: “A difference of +10 dB or more is likely to be an indication of a significant adverse impact, 
depending on the context.” and “A difference of around + 5 dB is likely to be an indication of an adverse 
impact, depending on the context.” 
The assessment modelled the following two scenarios: 
 normal operations (fans at normal capacity, generators not running); and  
 emergency operation (fans at high capacity, generators running). 
Under normal operation the predicted noise level at the most impacted receptor was 46 dB and was not 
audible above traffic noise during the background survey. During an emergency situation the noise levels 
maybe audible at receptor locations and a 4 dB penalty was applied for the tonal character of the noise. The 
predicted noise level at the most impacted receptor, under emergency operations was 53 dB.  
The background sound level at this receptor was 63 dB during the day and night time. Therefore, during 
normal operation the noise level from the site is predicted to be 17 dB lower than the derived background. 
During emergency operation the noise level is predicted to be 6 dB lower than the derived background.  
In line with BS4142 this indicates that the installation is unlikely to have an adverse impact on nearby 
receptors.  
Although no noise management plan has been requested, condition 3.4 enables the Environment Agency to 
request one if considered necessary in the future.  
 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
Engines  
The Applicant carried out a review of the following candidate combustion technologies and made an 
assessment of the technology in order to determine which technology can be considered BAT.  
 option 1 - diesel fired generators; 
 option 2 - gas fired generators; 
 option 3 - fuel oil fired gas turbines; and 
 option 4 - fuel cell (hydrogen) generators. 
The assessment considered the following key requirements, for the SBGs to provide emergency back-up 
electricity, for the candidate technologies:  
 start-up time; 
 reliability; 
 independence of off-system services; and 
 causing the least environmental impact.  
The BAT assessment highlighted that option 2, gas fired generators, when compared to diesel generators 
produce fewer polluting emissions to air. However, the assessment states that they would not be suitable as 