EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  13 
Consultation 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations and our notice on GOV.UK 
for the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section 
Response received from 
Public Health England (PHE), 26 October 2018  
Brief summary of issues raised 
PHE recommend that any the permit should contain conditions to ensure that potential emissions (products 
of combustion) do not impact upon public health. 
PHE raised the following concerns: 
 limited consideration has been given to potential PM10, sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide, 
particularly noting that the site is within an AQMA for PM10;  
 a draft air quality action plan is included; however, this only details that liaison with regulators is 
undertaken in the event of long-term generator operation, as opposed to specific mitigation 
measures; 
 no consideration is given to cumulative impacts with the adjacent Global Switch facility; 
 existing diffusion tube monitoring data has been discounted from modelling, given that these are 
‘roadside’ locations; however, PHE notes that the site is bounded by ‘A-roads’ to the north, east 
and south. Furthermore, these concentrations are indicative of recorded (actual) as opposed to 
modelled concentrations; 
 consideration should be given to proposed times and dates of routine testing as a mitigation 
measures to potentially lessen public health impact. 
In addition the applicant has provided limited detail on site fire management plans and how accidents 
associated with the site combustion activities and fuel storage would be handled, which the EA may wish 
to consider as part of the permit application. 
PHE recommended that the following bodies are consulted: the local authority, the Food Standards 
Agency and the Director of Public Health. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
We carried out an assessment of the air quality modelling provided with the permit Application. Our Air 
Quality Assessment and Modelling team audited the assessment. As outlined in the key issues above, we 
agree with the Applicant’s conclusions, that the maintenance scenario is unlikely to cause an exceedance 
of the EQSs.  
The emergency scenario was based on 500 operational hours. We would consider a more realistic 
scenario to be 120 hours based on the history of the site having had no black or brown out events requiring 
all SBGs to fire up since operations began in 1989. Although we cannot rule out an exceedance of the 
NO2 EQS it is unlikely that the worst predicted emissions will coincide with the worst meteorological 
conditions and therefore subsequently causing a breach of the EQS.  
Furthermore, an improvement condition IC1 has been set requiring an Air Quality Management Plan 
(AQMP). 
See key issues above for further information.  
We have consulted on this application with the Local Authority, the Director of Public Health and the Food 
Standards Agency, however, no responses were received.  
 
 
 
 
 