Permit number 
EPR/SP3237JU 12 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
 the response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
 specific timescales for response measures; 
 how local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day; 
 contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
 timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
IC2 The operator shall produce a report outlining the maintenance and 
operating regime following the first year of operation following permitting. 
This shall include but is not limited to the following points:  
 reduce routine operational hours to less than 50 hours per year, 
per SBG; 
 a justification for not reducing the operational hours if this isn’t 
put in place; and 
 any additional improvements that have been identified to reduce 
emissions during the maintenance testing and operation of the 
generators. This should include timescales for the 
implementation of the improvements.  
The operator shall submit this report in writing to the Environment Agency 
for approval. 
Within 15 
months of 
permit issue 
IC3 The operator shall undertake an investigation into the following two 
proposals: 
 installing an oil interceptor on the surface water drainage system 
around the North Building; and 
 diverting the surface water runoff around the North Building via an 
existing oil interceptor.   
A report should be produced outlining which option they will proceed with, 
justification for why it is the most appropriate method and the timescales 
for the implementation.   
The operator shall implement the proposals as agreed in writing with the 
Environment Agency.  
Within 6 
months of 
permit issue.  
 