EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  4 
 Scenario 1: routine operations following the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the testing and 
maintenance of the generators (maintenance testing).  
 Scenario 2: electrical grid outage operations, an emergency response mode limited to 500 hours as 
outlined in the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) (emergency scenario).  
The air dispersion modelling was based on the new additional 8 SBGs being 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent 
standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000 mg/m3. Therefore a pre-operational measure 
for future development has been set requesting them to submit a report on the final design and that the 
environmental impact assessment is still valid.  
Maintenance testing 
The Applicant has modelled continuous operation for the maintenance scenario, regardless of ‘no load’ and 
‘part load’ tests, which represents a worst case approach.  
The process contribution (PC) exceeds the short term human health environmental quality standard (EQS) 
for NO2 at the majority of the receptor locations. Therefore, cannot be considered insignificant in that the PC 
is > 10% of the short term EQS. The predicted environmental contribution (PEC) is not predicted to exceed 
100% of the short term EQS at any of the receptor locations and can be considered unlikely to give rise to 
significant pollution.  
The long term NO
2 emissions can be screened out as insignificant as the PC is < 1% of the long term EQS 
at all receptor locations.  
There are no predicted exceedances of the annual mean NO2, short term NO2 critical levels or nutrient and 
acid deposition critical loads at any of the ecological receptors.   
Emergency scenario 
The Applicant has modelled 500 hours as a worst case scenario for full loss of power. The assessment 
indicates that the emergency scenario could pose a risk to local air quality at identified receptors for short 
term and long term NO2.  
However, outages lasting for 500 hours is very unlikely. This can be considered to be the case for this 
installation due to the site being served by six incoming feeds from the National Grid. Furthermore, the 
Applicant confirmed that they have not had any black out or brown outs of the local transmission system, 
which has required the use of all the SBGs, since the site began operations with the North building in 1989.  
A more realistic emergency scenario would be 120 hours (5 days), in line with other datacentres. We 
consider it unlikely, based on the history of the site and reliability of the National Grid supply, that the 
cumulative hours of electrical outage would be greater than this. Although we cannot rule out an exceedance 
of the NO2 EQS it is unlikely that the worst predicted emissions will coincide with the worst meteorological 
conditions and therefore subsequently causing a breach of the EQS.  
Furthermore, an improvement condition IC1 has been set requiring an Air Quality Management Plan 
(AQMP). We have specified that the Operator shall produce a written action plan to manage potential 
impacts in the event of prolonged emergency running of the SGBs (including sensitive receptors list and 
mitigations, assessments and impacts evaluation against modelled risk conditions i.e. occurrence at periods 
of most concern in the year, possibly ambient air monitoring surveillance at very sensitive receptors). This 
needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The Operator is expected to work with the local 
authority to develop this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered. 
 
Emission Limits and Monitoring Requirements 
Condition 2.3.5 of the permit sets a maximum 500 hour emergency/standby operational limit for plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity. Emergency hours’ operation includes 
those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure 
associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without emission limit values (ELVs) or associated monitoring 