EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  10 
Aspect considered Decision 
of land and water is unlikely. The decision was taken in accordance with our 
guidance on site condition reports. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
There is one Special Area of conservation (SAC), one Special Protection 
Area (SPA) and one Ramsar within 10 kilometres of the installation. There 
are also 23 local Wildlife sites within 2 kilometres of the installation. 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect all known sites of 
nature conservation, landscape and heritage and/or protected species or 
habitats identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any sites of nature 
conservation, landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats 
identified. 
A Habitat Risk Assessment (HRA) was completed and sent to Natural 
England for information only. The decision was taken in accordance with our 
guidance 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory, however we have included 
improvement conditions to ensure additional considerations of risk relating to 
emissions to air are considered on an ongoing basis. 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Permit conditions 
Raw materials We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Pre-operational conditions Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to 
impose a pre-operational condition which requires the operator to specify the 
details of the additional 8 SBGs and that the environmental impact 
assessment is still valid.  
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. Three improvement conditions have 
been included in table S1.3 of the permit (IC1 to IC3).  
IC1 has been included requiring the Operator to produce an Air Quality 
Management Plan to manage the issue of prolonged emergency running of 
the plant and to ensure local factors are considered.  