EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  7 
gas fired generators do not have as fast start-up as diesel generators. Furthermore, they can be considered 
to be not as reliable due to the reliance on an off-site supply of gas. Therefore, gas fired generators have 
been discounted.  
Option 3, fuel oil fired gas turbines, have been discounted due to start up times not being as quick as diesel 
generators.  
Option 4, fuel cell (hydrogen) generators, were considered in the BAT options and highlighted as being new 
technology without proven installation in back up generation capacity. In the absence of piped hydrogen 
significant quantities would need to be stored on site. Therefore, due to the lack of availability of space 
coupled with the health and safety risks of storing hydrogen this option has been ruled out.  
Fast start is a fundamental requirement of the technology as it is essential to resume, almost 
instantaneously, a supply of electricity in the event of loss of power to the site from the local transmission 
system. Based on the ability for fast start-up and shutdown the BAT assessment concluded that option 1, 
diesel generators, are the preferred option with respect to the provision of emergency backup electricity 
supply at the datacentre.  
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres. Currently diesel generators are the preferred option for the supply of backup power for 
datacentres and are a proven technology for providing reliable resilience of functionality which can be started 
from cold very quickly.  
Generator specification 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000 mg/m3. 
The 8 existing generators in the North 2 and West building do accord with the 2g TA-Luft standard. 
Furthermore, the applicant has confirmed that the additional 8 engines to be installed with also meet this 
standard.   
The 11 existing engines across the North and East buildings have emissions higher than this. However, we 
do acknowledge that it would not be practicable to require the operator at this stage to upgrade all plant to 
BAT standards.  
Site electrical setup  
The electricity supply arrangements for the site include six incoming feeds from the National Grid, any of 
which can serve the customer load. One of these feeds is a 132 kV supply from the National Grid which is 
not reliant on an external transformer station to step down the supply. 
In addition in each building there are battery based uninterruptable power supply (UPS) systems which can 
supply power for up to 15 minutes should there be transient interruptions or fluctuations in power supply. 
These arrays can provide sufficient protection to the supply of electrical power whilst the SBGs are started. 
The site operates its electrical supplies on an automatic basis. In the event of fluctuations in, or loss of, the 
electrical supply to the site, the relevant response (e.g. ignition of SBGs) is automatically deployed. 
The generators and batteries will be used solely for the purpose for generating power for the facility. No 
electricity will be exported from the installation.  
Waste minimisation 
Whilst the site will inherently not produce significant amounts of waste, a waste minimisation audit will be 
performed periodically as part of the Waste Management System, throughout the operational lifetime of the 
site. The aim of this audit will be to minimise the use of all raw materials and thus prevent waste at source. 
Waste oils from the generators will be approximately 4.5 tonnes per annum. The waste oil is recycled for fuel 
for a power station. Oily wastes are stored in suitable containers, such as 205 litre drums; these are located 
on bunded stillages whilst awaiting collection for off-site disposal by a licensed waste contractor. 
 
 