EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  9 
Decision checklist  
 
Aspect considered Decision 
Receipt of application 
Confidential information A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 
Identifying confidential 
information  
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that we 
consider to be confidential.  
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 
Consultation 
Consultation The consultation requirements were identified in accordance with the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations and our public participation statement. 
The application was publicised on the GOV.UK website. 
We consulted the following organisations: 
 Local Authority - Tower Hamlets Council 
 Public Health England and Director of Public Health 
 Health and Safety Executive 
 Food Standards Agency 
The comments and our responses are summarised in the consultation 
section. 
Operator 
Control of the facility We are satisfied that the applicant (now the operator) is the person who will 
have control over the operation of the facility after the grant of the permit. The 
decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on legal operator for 
environmental permits. 
The facility 
The regulated facility We considered the extent and nature of the facility at the site in accordance 
with RGN2 ‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of 
RGN 2 ‘Defining the scope of the installation’, Appendix 1 of RGN 2 
‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’, guidance on waste recovery plans and permits. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The 
activities are defined in table S1.1 of the permit. 
The site 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, showing 
the extent of the site of the facility. The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. Based on the site condition report, we consider that 
appropriate pollution prevention measures are in place and that the pollution 