Permit number 
EPR/SP3237JU 2 
Telehouse Docklands Datacentre  
Permit number EPR/SP3237JU 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site consists of four datacentres located at the Docklands Campus, Coriander Avenue, London. The site 
is approximately centred on National Grid Reference TQ 38770 81090.  
This permit covers the operation of emergency standby diesel generators which provide backup power 
generation to the datacentres in the event of National Grid failure and planned maintenance. The generators 
are permitted as a Section 1.1 Part A(1) (a) activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations for the 
burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW).  
The current combustion plant comprises 19 diesel fuelled standby generators (SBGs). There is also space 
for a further eight SBGs should future business needs require. For the purpose of the determination the 
additional SBGs were assessed and have been included in this permit. The rated generation capacity of the 
SBGs ranges from 1.6 megawatt electrical (MWe) to 2.4 MWe (average thermal input of 5.1 MWth). The 
aggregated total thermal input of the 19 SBGs is 93.6 MWth, increasing to 145 MWth if the future expansion 
is required.  
The four datacentres, containing the SBGs, are located in Buildings North, North 2, West and East. Each 
SBG has its own dedicated stack. The SBGs in the North, North 2 and East buildings all have vertical stacks 
at a height above roof level. The SBGs in the West building have horizontal stacks, however, located above 
roof height.   
The electricity supply arrangements for the site include six incoming feeds from the National grid, any of 
which can serve the customer load. One of these feeds is a 132 kV supply from the National Grid which is 
not reliant on an external transformer station. In addition each building also has a battery based 
uninterruptable power supply (UPS) system which can supply power for up to 15 minutes should there be 
transient interruptions or fluctuations in power supply. These arrays can provide sufficient protection to the 
supply of electrical power whilst the SBGs are started. The generators and batteries will be used solely for 
the purpose for generating power for the facility in the event of an emergency situation such as mains failure. 
No electricity will be exported from the installation.  
The diesel fuel is stored in bulk tanks located above and below ground. The below ground storage tanks are 
double skinned and the above ground tanks are single skinned. All diesel bulk storage tanks are bunded and 
have overfill indication and audible alarms. The storage day tanks each have high level alarms and auto 
shutoff devices. 
The only emissions to sewer from the site comprise of surface water run-off and sanitary effluent and 
occasional condensate discharges from clean water tank flushing, chiller systems and air conditioning units. 
There are no emissions to surface water or land from the installation. 
The installation will operate an Environment Management System in line with the requirements of ISO 
14001.  
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number.  
 