EPR/SP3237JU/A001 
Date issued: 24/04/2019  3 
 
Site Condition Report 
A site condition report (SCR) was submitted with the application, it includes information on the previous land 
use and details of the geological setting of the site.  
Historic land use maps indicate that the site and surrounding area has had various industrial uses associated 
with shipping (East Dock) and road and rail warehousing. The site formed the eastern end of the East Dock 
between approximately 1803 and the mid 1980’s. The 8.5 metre deep East Dock was partly filled from the 
west after World War II, with infilling completed in 1987-8 (the nature of material used to infill the former dock 
is unknown). The North building at the site was constructed in 1989 and the site has been developed in 
successive stages since this date in three phases. The east and supporting areas were developed in the 
early 2000s, the west was developed in the late 2000s and the second northern development occurred in 
2014.  
The underlying bedrock is a sedimentary combination of clay, silt and sand of the London Clay Formation, 
which is classified as an unproductive aquifer. Geological maps show the bedrock is overlain by Alluvium, 
which are classified as a Secondary (undifferentiated) Aquifer. Areas of made ground and infill are also 
suspected across the site based on historical land uses, these areas may have higher permeability. The 
installation does not lie within a groundwater source protection zone. 
There are a number of surface water features within 500 metres of the installation boundary. The River Lea, 
a tributary to the River Thames, is located approximately 130 metres east of the site (at its nearest point). 
The River Thames is located approximately 360 metres to the south of the installation (at its nearest point), 
with the adjoining East India Dock Basin approximately 190 metres to the south east of the site. An artificial 
pond is located approximately 15 metres to the south west of the site, with further ponds approximately 130 
metres to the west. 
The majority of the site is situated in Flood Zone 2 (areas at risk of flooding during an extreme rainfall event, 
or between a 1 in 100 and 1 in 1,000 annual probability of river flooding). The north of the site is within Flood 
Zone 3 (a high risk category due to the risk of alluvial flooding). Both the River Lea and The River Thames 
benefit from flood defences. 
There are no recorded pollution incidents within the site boundary that may have affected the land beneath 
the site. However, due to the long industrial nature of the site it is likely that historic contamination may exist. 
The SCR therefore included a report on the baseline conditions. The site investigation was undertaken in 
spring 2018 to provide a baseline report for the whole installation. Previous investigations had been limited to 
the development of new buildings only. Intrusive ground investigation was conducted between 19 April 2018 
and 24 April 2018. Groundwater and gas monitoring was then carried out on 30 April 2018, with follow up 
gas monitoring rounds conducted on 8 May 2018 and 16 May 2018. Six boreholes were investigated. The 
site investigation revealed that there were no significantly elevated concentrations of any of the 
determinands in soil samples, with the exception of asbestos which was found in boreholes BH1, BH2 and 
BH5. The groundwater monitoring revealed that BH2 and BH6 exhibited exceedances of Arsenic and 
Petroleum Hydrocarbons. The average concentrations of Petroleum Hydrocarbons, Arsenic, and 
Naphthalene were also in exceedance of Water Quality Standards. Methane and Carbon Dioxide is recorded 
in low levels during monitoring of gases beneath the site. 
 
Air Quality  
The installation is situated with an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) for nitrogen dioxide (NO
2) and 
particulates (PM10). The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is NO2 resulting from the combustion 
process on site. The Applicant has submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the potential 
impact of emission of NO2 from the generators on local air quality. 
We have audited the air dispersion modelling and report submitted with the application. Both the 
maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the modelling were assessed. The engines will be 
operated under:  