 
Permit number 
EPR/TP3120LE 12 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
The operator shall produce an AQMP in conjunction with the Local Authority 
outlining response measures to be taken in the event of a grid failure. This must 
include, but not be limited to, the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential impact 
indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual receptors; 
• Preventative and reactive actions to be implemented to limit the duration of 
an outage event to less than 50 hours as far as possible; 
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the response 
required, for example meteorological conditions or time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event scenario 
i.e. loss of power;  
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan; and 
• Addition of indicative air quality monitoring stations around the site to 
inform on air quality during extended periods of standby generator running 
including prolonged grid outages.  
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for approval. 
Within 6 months 
from the date of 
issue of the 
permit 
EPR/TP3120LE 
IC2 Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
The operator shall submit a monitoring plan for approval by the Environment 
Agency detailing their proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring 
requirements specified in table S3.1, in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack 
emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 04 June 2024 
(formerly known as TGN M5). The plan shall include, but not necessarily be limited 
to: 
• When the generators are not fitted with sampling ports, a proposal to 
install them within the shortest practical timeline; 
• Details of any relevant safety, cost and operational constraints affecting 
the monitoring regime, in support of any proposed deviation from the 
testing regime specified in permit table S3.1.  
Within 3 months 
from the date of 
issue of the 
permit 
EPR/TP3120LE 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measure 
PO1 Commissioning 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a commissioning plan to the 
Environment Agency for approval.  The plan shall provide timescales for the commissioning of the 
diesel generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the diesel generators is covered 
within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations and impacts.  
When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, the operator 
shall submit an environmental risk assessment for approval by the Environment Agency, 
demonstrating that the environmental risks during the commissioning are minimised and remain not 
significant. The commissioning of the engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the 
plan and associated environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency.  
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written approval.  
  