 
Page 6 of 17 
Airflow around buildings is often complex and may create zones of strong 
turbulence and downward mixing on the lee side, an effect known as building 
downwash. To represent this effect, the AQA includes 15 building structures in 
the model (Table D.3 of the AQA). We agree that this building configuration is 
reasonably representative, but we tested sensitivity to an alternative modelling 
software to assess ADMS’s building approximations. The use of an alternative 
modelling software did not change conclusions. 
Emission concentrations and emission rates for the proposed generators are 
derived from manufacturer’s data specifications, provided in Appendix B of the 
AQA. We were able to replicate these emission rates. 
Modelling scenarios 
For dispersion modelling purposes, the AQA assumed that the LON-3 and LON-2 
data centres will only test one generator at any given time between 8am and 
6pm, which is likely to represent a typical working day. The generators at each 
data centre have been split into two groups to simplify the modelling, called the 
‘North’ and ‘South’ group. Each generator in the ‘North’ and ‘South’ groups is 
assumed to cause similar contributions at receptors, so only one generator in 
each group has been modelled. All generators are modelled operating at full 
load, although in reality the Applicant expects the generators to be tested at 
loads between 25–99% (Table 2.3 of the Operational Report). The two-hour 
black start test has not been separately modelled because its short-term PCs will 
be the same as for the emergency scenario. The scenarios modelled for the AQA 
are as follows:  
• A LON-3 north generator tested in isolation. 
• A LON-3 south generator tested in isolation. 
• A LON-3 north generator tested at the same time as a LON-2 north 
generator. 
• A LON-3 south generator tested at the same time as a LON-2 south 
generator. 
• The LON-3 admin generator tested at the same time as a LON-2 south 
generator. 
• Emergency – all generators from LON-3 alone, and from LON-2 and LON-
3 together, operated for 72 hours. 
 
Air Quality Impacts (human health) 
Testing: 
The Applicant’s AQA results indicate the following at human health receptors, for 
LON-3 alone and in combination with LON-2: 
• The 99.79th percentile 1-hour NO2 Environmental Standard (ES) is not 
predicted to be exceeded when generators are tested individually. 