 
Permit number 
EPR/TP3120LE 19 
Schedule 6 – Interpretation 
“accident” means an accident that may result in pollution. 
“application” means the application for this permit, together with any additional information supplied by the 
operator as part of the application and any response to a notice served under Schedule 5 to the EP 
Regulations. 
“authorised officer” means any person authorised by the Environment Agency under section 108(1) of The 
Environment Act 1995 to exercise, in accordance with the terms of any such authorisation, any power specified 
in section 108(4) of that Act. 
“compliance date” means 01/01/2025 for existing MCPs with net rated thermal input of greater than 5MW or 
01/01/2030 for existing MCPs with a net rated thermal input of less than or equal to 5MW.  
“emissions to land” includes emissions to groundwater. 
“EP Regulations” means The Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations SI 201 6 No.1154 and 
words and expressions used in this permit which are also used in the Regulations have the same meanings as 
in those Regulations. 
“emissions of substances not controlled by emission limits” means emissions of substances to air, water or land 
from the activities, either from the emission points specified in schedule 3 or from other localised or diffuse 
sources, which are not controlled by an emission limit. 
“existing MCP” means an MCP first put into operation before 20/12/2018.  
“gas oil” includes diesel and is defined in Article 3(19) of the MCPD. 
“groundwater” means all water, which is below the surface of the ground in the saturation zone and in direct 
contact with the ground or subsoil. 
“Industrial Emissions Directive” means DIRECTIVE 2010/75/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF 
THE COUNCIL of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions, as read in accordance with Schedule 1A to the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016. 
“MCERTS” means the Environment Agency’s Monitoring Certification Scheme.  
“Medium Combustion Plant” or ”MCP” means a combustion plant with a rated thermal input equal to or greater 
than 1 MW but less than 50 MW. 
“Medium Combustion Plant Directive” or “MCPD” means Directive 2015/2193/EU of the European Parliament 
and of the Council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion 
plants, as read in accordance with Schedule 1A to the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) 
Regulations 2016. 
“Net rated thermal input” means the rate at which fuel can be burned at the maximum continuous rating of the 
appliance multiplied by the net calorific value of the fuel and expressed as megawatts thermal.  
“new MCP” means an MCP first put into operation on or after 20/12/2018. 
“operating hours” means the time, expressed in hours, during which a combustion plant is operating and 
discharging emissions into the air, excluding start-up and shut-down periods.  
“shut-down” is any period where the plant is being returned to a non-operational state. 
“start-up” is any period, where the plant has been non-operational, until fuel has been fed to the plant to initiate 
steady-state conditions. 
“year” means calendar year ending 31 December. 
Where a minimum limit is set for any emission parameter, for example pH, reference to exceeding the limit shall 
mean that the parameter shall not be less than that limit. 