 
Page 2 of 17 
Key issues of the Decision 
In reaching our decision to grant the permit we took into consideration the 
following matters: 
1. The Installation 
The installation is subject to the Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) as 
it carries out an activity listed in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the EPR:  
• Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated 
thermal input of 50 megawatts or more.  
 
The data centre facility is located at 111 Buckingham Avenue, Slough, Berkshire, 
identified by the national grid reference SU 95817 81065. 
The development comprises one main building which will be used as a data 
centre (LON3) and a 3-storey gantry adjacent to the main building that will house 
the Emergency Standby Generators (ESGs). The data centre will be powered 
using electricity from the national grid under normal operational conditions. 
The permit authorises the operation of the ESGs serving the data centre in the 
event of failure in the electrical grid supply. The 17 ESGs, including 1 Rolls 
Royce 12V1600G10F generator (1.15 MWth; Gantry Level 0) and 16 Rolls Royce 
20V4000G94LF generators (7.01 MWth; Gantry Level 2), with a combined 
thermal input of approximately 113.31 MWth, will be capable of providing a N+1 
level of resilience. These ESGs are designed for limited operation, for 
maintenance, testing, and emergencies, the permit does not allow the export of 
electricity to the National Grid.  
The ESGs will be fuelled using gas oil or Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil (HVO). 
Fuel will be stored in integrally bunded belly tanks at the sub-base of each ESG. 
The total fuel storage capacity of the site is 714,000 litres. 
2. Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
Choice of Technology and Fuel 
The Applicant considered a range of technologies and fuels as part of the design 
and specification phase. At this time the latest generation of gas oil powered 
generators are optimally viable for operators based on availability, reliability, 
capital and operating costs. Alternatives, including natural gas engines, battery 
storage, hydrogen fuel cells, solar panels and wind turbines were considered but 
are not operationally viable for this installation. 
We accept that gas oil powered generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. We are satisfied that the 
applicant has provided sufficient justification to show that their proposal is BAT. 