 
Page 3 of 17 
We have specified the fuel to burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a 
sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing our 
position on the use gas oil substitute fuels, therefore we have required that if any 
of these fuels are proposed, written agreement is sought by the operator from the 
Environment Agency’s regulatory officer. 
The Applicant has informed us of their intention to use HVO as a substitute for 
gas oil. We consider this to be acceptable. HVO is increasingly used across the 
data centre sector as a lower-carbon alternative to conventional fossil fuels. It is 
subject to the same fuel quality specifications as gas oil, including limits on 
sulphur content. We are satisfied that using HVO will not result in emissions that 
exceed those associated with gas oil and that no further assessment is required. 
Engine Specification 
Environment Agency guidance specifies the BAT emissions specifications for 
new diesel-fired reciprocating engines as 2g TA-Luft or US EPA Tier II (or 
equivalent standard) with NOx emission levels in the range of 2000 mg/m3 at 5% 
oxygen and reference conditions. 
The generators proposed for the installation are emissions optimised and meet 
the above US EPA Tier II specification at 75% load which is the intended typical 
operational load, we are satisfied this is in line with Environment Agency 
guidance. 
Fuel Storage 
At the sub-base of each ESG there will be an integrally bunded 42m3 belly tank, 
containing gas oil/HVO for the operation of the specific generator. The belly tanks 
will be equipped with leak detection and integral bunding having a capacity of 
110% of the tank volume. Individual fuel polishing systems will be installed within 
each generator enclosure. The belly tanks shall have an access hatch to allow for 
inspection, a tank vent and a fill point connection to allow for the delivery of fuel 
to each tank from the fuel transfer tanks. The belly tanks will be automatically 
refuelled from the delivery road tankers, providing 48-hours fuel storage capacity 
and a redundancy of N+1. The total fuel storage capacity of the site is 714,000 
litres. 
Operational areas of the site will be covered in good quality hardstanding. 
Dedicated drainage interceptors to be installed acting as a tertiary containment to 
prevent spill fuel entering surface waters. All fuel fill lines will have class I 
proprietary leak detection systems and double walls. The Applicant has 
confirmed that the fuel storage and distribution system will be compliant with the 
Oil storage regulations for businesses. 