 
Page 7 of 17 
• 100th percentile 1-hour NO2 Process Contributions (PCs) are not 
predicted to exceed the Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGL-1).  
• 1-hour NO PCs are predicted to be insignificant for operation of LON-3 
alone. 1- hour NO PCs are ‘not insignificant’ in-combination, but they are 
not predicted to exceed the ES. 
 
Emergency: 
The Applicant’s AQA results indicate the following: 
• 1-hour 99.79th percentile NO2 PCs are predicted to exceed the 1-hour 
NO2 ES. For LON-3 in isolation, a 72-hour emergency outage scenario is 
predicted to have a 5% chance of exceeding the 1-hour NO2 ES. For 
LON-2 and LON-3 in-combination, the Applicant predicts that that there 
would be a 5% chance of exceeding the 1-hour NO2 ES if there were over 
65 hours of emergency operation. However, the regions where the 
chance of an exceedance of the ES is greater than 5% seem to be within 
the site boundary (Figure 7-1 of the AQA). 
• 100th percentile 1-hour NO2 PCs are not predicted to exceed the AEGL-1 
values.  
• 1-hour NO PCs are not predicted to exceed the ES. 
• The Applicant does not predict exceedances of any long-term ES when 
considering the total annual emissions. 
 
We have reviewed the Applicant’s modelling, including the choice of the model, 
the assumptions made and the background data used. Although exceedances of 
the 1-hour mean NO2 environmental standard for the 72-hour emergency 
scenario cannot be ruled out, as this represents a national emergency event and 
is considered unlikely to occur, we consider that the Applicant’s proposal is in line 
with Environment Agency’s guidance and no further mitigation measures are 
required. Therefore, we agree with the Applicant’s conclusions that emissions to 
air are insignificant or are unlikely to cause an exceedance of any environmental 
standards at human health receptors. 
Air Quality Impacts (Habitats) 
The Applicant has identified the following European sites within the 10 km 
screening distance of the facility: 
• Burnham Beeches Special Area of Conservation (SAC). 
• Windsor Forest and Great Park SAC. 
• South West London Waterbodies Special Protection Area (SPA) & Ramsar. 
 