 
Permit number 
EPR/TP3120LE 2 
LON3 Data Centre  
Permit number EPR/TP3120LE 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The permit authorises the operation of standby electricity generating plant at a data centre located at 111 
Buckingham Avenue, Slough, Berkshire, national grid reference SU 95817 81065. The surrounding area is a 
mix of industrial, commercial and residential uses. The data centre will under normal operating conditions be 
powered by grid supplied electricity. 
The installation falls under the following Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) Schedule 1 listed activity 
description: Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) - Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts. 
The installation comprises 17 stand-by backup generators to provide electrical power to the data centre in the 
event of a failure of power supply from the national grid. The standby generators are 16 x 7.01 MWth and 1 x 
1.15 MWth new medium combustion plant (MCP) diesel generators with an aggregated net rated thermal input 
of 113.31 MWth. All generators will be fuelled using gas oil or Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil (HVO). All 
generators at the installation are emissions optimised and meet the US EPA Tier II sp ecification at 75% load. 
Principal emissions from the installation are oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions to air from the generators. 
Exhaust gases from the 16 main generators (7.01 MWth) will be discharged through 23.36 meter high (from 
ground level) individual flues. Exhaust gases from the admin generator (1.15 MWth) will be discharged through 
a 4.5 meter high (from ground level) individual flue. Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCRs) systems have not 
been installed on an individual generator basis, but the generators are ‘SCR Ready’. Each generator has its 
own integrally bunded 42m3 fuel storage tank. Total fuel storage capacity at the site is approximately 714,000 
litres. 
Under normal circumstances, electricity to the site will be provided by the National Grid. However, in the unlikely 
event of an outage, generators are designed to operate until the grid supply is restored. The plant is limited to 
operating less than 500 hours/year, including the testing regime. Each generator will be tested for approximately 
22 hours/year. 
Each generator will be tested one at a time at medium load - 45% for 30 minutes, every two weeks throughout 
the year; at medium load - 45% for 1 hour, every 3 months; at full load - 100% for 1.5 hours, every 6 months. 
Once per year all sixteen 7.01 MWth generators could be tested simultaneously for 2 hours at variable loads 
from 25% to 99%.  
There will be no process effluent discharged from the installation. Uncontaminated surface water run -off from 
the roof and hard-standing will drain via an oil/water interceptor to the surface water drainage system before 
being discharged to the local surface water sewer system operated by Thames Water.  
Burnham Beeches Special Areas of Conservation (SAC), Windsor Forest and Great Park SAC, and Southwest 
London Waterbodies Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar site are all located within 10km of the 
installation and there are also a number of Local Wildlife Sites (LWS) and Local Nature Reserves (LNR) within 
2km of the installation. The closest residential properties are located approximately 350m east from the data 
centre boundary. 
There will be an Environmental Management System (EMS) in place based on the ISO 14001 standard.  
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number. 
 