 
Page 9 of 17 
5. Emission limits 
As the plant is limited to less than 500 hours of emergency operation by permit 
condition 2.3.6 and less than 50 hours for maintenance and testing in permit 
table S1.2, air emission limits have not been set. 
6. Monitoring requirements  
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide (CO) from 
emission points A1 to A17, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 hours 
of operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has 
been included in the permit in order to comply with the requirements of Medium 
Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD), which specifies the minimum requirements 
for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced 
operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from 
emission points A1 to A17, with the same frequency specified for the monitoring 
of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied 
our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in 
concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk 
associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 04 June 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set an improvement condition (IC2) requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in the permit. 
For new MCP, we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 
4 months of the issue date of the permit or the date when each new medium 
combustion plant is first put into operation, whichever is later (permit condition 
3.5.4) unless otherwise agreed under IC2. 
7. Operational hours 
We set operational hour limits for data centres at 500 hours as they are permitted 
for emergency use only. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the 