 
Page 5 of 17 
cannot be achieved. The generators will not synchronise with the mains supply at 
any time. 
The application states that National Grid National Electrical Transmission System 
Performance Report 2022/23 states that the overall reliability of supply over the  
period 2022-23 was: 99.999981%. Therefore, it is considered very unlikely that 
the generators would run for extended periods during a blackout event.  
 
The Applicant has conservatively assessed the impact on air quality based on all 
17 generators operating at 100% load for up to 72 hours to cover an emergency 
power outage scenario. This is in line with Environment Agency guidance. 
4. Air quality assessment 
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) resulting from the combustion process on site. 
We don’t consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. 
The Applicant’s assessment of the impact of air quality is set out in document 
Iron Mountain LON-3 Data Centre Air Quality Assessment (AQA), revision 2, 
dated 28th May 2024.  
The assessment comprises: 
• Dispersion modelling of emissions to air from the operation of the ESGs at 
LON-3 data centre. 
• Dispersion modelling of emissions to air from the operation of the ESGs at 
LON-3 in combination with the ESGs at LON-2 data centre 
(EPR/PP3309MK/A001). 
• A study of the impact of emissions on nearby sensitive conservation sites. 
 
As a worst-case scenario, emissions from annual testing of ESGs assumed 636 
maximum annual operating hours for a single generator for the main generator 
and 57 hours for the admin generator. Once commissioned the total annual 
testing hours for the generators will reduce to 352 for main generator and 20 
hours for admin per year. 
The air dispersion modelling carried out by the applicant used the Atmospheric 
Dispersion Modelling System (ADMS 6) version 6.0.0.1 which we consider an 
appropriate air quality modelling tool for regulatory purposes. The model used 
five years of meteorological data observed at Heathrow Airport meteorological 
station, which is located approximately 10 km southeast of the facility, between 
2018 and 2022. We consider this station to be reasonably representative of the 
meteorological conditions at the site. 