 
Page 8 of 17 
There are no sites of special scientific interest (SSSIs) within the 2 km screening 
distance of the facility: 
 
The Applicant has identified the following non-statutory local wildlife and 
conservation sites within 2 km screening distance of the installation: 
• Haymill Valley Local Nature Reserve (LNR) & Local Wildlife Sites (LWS). 
• Cocksherd Wood LNR &LWS. 
• Railway Triangle LWS. 
 
The Applicant assessed the impact from the proposed Installation on the Habitat 
sites that are within the relevant screening distances, and their modelling 
predictions are summarised below: 
• The annual NOx, nutrient nitrogen, and acid deposition PCs are less than 
the insignificance criteria of 1% at all ecological sites, for LON-3 in 
isolation and in-combination. 
• For testing of LON-3 in isolation and in-combination with LON-2, the daily 
mean NOx PCs are all insignificant. 
• For the 72-hour emergency scenario, the daily mean NOx PCs are ‘not 
insignificant’ for LON-3, but the Predicted Environmental Concentrations 
(PECs) are not predicted to exceed the critical level. In-combination, the 
PC is above the insignificance criteria for local nature sites at the Railway 
Triangle LWS (PC of 103.9%). For the rest of the ecological receptors, the 
PCs and PECs are below the critical level. The Applicant claim that this 
concentration is unlikely to occur at the Railway Triangle LWS, because 
72-hours of emergency operation is very unlikely. 
 
We have evaluated the significance of the daily mean NOx PC at Railway 
Triangle LWS being above the 100% insignificance criteria when ESGs at LON-2 
and LON-3 are running at the same time during an emergency event and we 
agree exceedances are unlikely, as this is based on a national emergency event. 
The way in which the Applicant used dispersion models, its selection of input 
data, use of background data and the assumptions it made have been reviewed 
by the Environment Agency to establish the robustness of the Applicant’s air 
impact assessment. Our review of the Applicant’s assessment leads us to agree 
with the Applicant’s conclusions that the operation of ESGs at LON-3 data centre 
is unlikely to make a significant contribution to or cause exceedances of critical 
loads or levels at ecological designations. 