 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 4 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
• the long-term process contribution is less than 1% of the relevant ES; and 
• the short-term process contribution is less than 10% of the relevant ES. 
The long-term 1% process contribution insignificance threshold is based on the 
judgements that:  
• It is unlikely that an emission at this level will make a significant contribution 
to air quality;  
• The threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and the 
environment.  
The short-term 10% process contribution insignificance threshold is based on the 
judgements that:  
• spatial and temporal conditions mean that short-term process contributions 
are transient and limited in comparison with long -term process 
contributions;  
• the threshold provides a substantial safety margin to protect health and the 
environment.  
Where an emission is screened out in this way, we would normally consider that 
the Applicant’s proposals for the prevention and control of the emission to be BAT. 
That is because if the impact of the emission is already insignificant, it follows that 
any further reduction in this emission will also be insignificant. 
However, where an emission cannot be screened out as insignificant, it does not 
mean it will necessarily be significant. 
For those pollutants which do not screen out as insignificant, we determine whether 
exceedances of the relevant ES are likely. This is done through detailed audit and 
review of the Applicant’s air dispersion modelling taking background 
concentrations and modelling uncertainties into account. Where an exceedance of 
an ES is identified, we may require the Applicant to go beyond what would normally 
be considered BAT for the Installation or we may refuse the Application if the 
Applicant is unable to provide suitable proposals. Whether or not exceedances are 
considered likely, the Application is subject to the requirement to operate in 
accordance with BAT. 
This is not the end of the risk assessment, because we also take into account local 
factors for example: 
• Statutory protected ecological receptors nearby, i.e. Sites of Special 
Scientific Interest (SSSIs), Ramsar sites, Special Areas of Conservation 
(SACs) or Special Protection Areas (SPAs).  
• Non-statutory protected ecological receptors, such as local nature sites 
 
The insignificance criteria for statutory protected ecological receptors are: 