 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 5 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
• the short -term PC is less than 10% of the short -term environmental 
standard for protected conservation areas 
• the long -term PC is less than 1% of the long term environmental 
standard for protected conservation areas 
If the long-term PC is greater than 1% we look at the background concentration 
and calculate the predicted environmental concentration (PEC). If the  PEC at the 
statutorily protected ecological receptor  is less than 70% of the long-term 
environmental standard for protected conservation areas, the emissions are 
considered insignificant. 
According to our guidance, the insignificance criteria for non -statutory protected 
ecological receptors are: 
• the short -term PC is less than 100% of the short -term environmental 
standard for protected conservation areas 
• the long -term PC is less than 100% of the long -term environmental 
standard for protected conservation areas 
 
The air dispersion modelling report submitted by the Applicant assesses the 
potential impact of emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and particulates (PM10) 
from the generators on local air quality. The primary pollutant of concern to air 
quality is (NO2), resulting from the combustion process on site. SO2 is not 
considered to be an issue as all fuel used is ultra-low sulphur diesel, leading to 
negligible impacts; the fuel type is specified in the permit in Table S2.1. 
The data centre is situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) in the 
borough of Ealing. There are a further 3 AQMAs within 2 km as follows; Brent 
Borough 350 metres to the North, Hammersmith and Fulham 500 metres to the 
East, Kensington and Chelsea 1.9 kilometres to the East. The London Borough 
of Ealing were consulted; their comments and our responses are shown in the 
consultation section. 
The Environment Agency’s Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) 
has audited the updated air dispersion modelling report submitted for this 
variation.  
The outcomes of our audit are summarised in the following:  
Long-term impacts (all scenarios combined) 
• The process contributions for all pollutants are predicted to be less than 
1% of the applicable long-term environmental standards for human health, 
hence the risk to human health associated with long-term operations is 
considered insignificant. 
  