 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 22 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public, and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section 
Response received from: UK Health Security Agency 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
The UKHSA requested that the Environment Agency takes account of the 
following concerns when considering appropriate permit conditions: 
• The Environment Agency should be satisfied that the applicant has measures in 
place to manage prolonged emergency running of the generators, considering 
the potential for exceedance of the NO2 Air Quality Standard during any 
emergency power generation scenario, and prevention of short-term impact on 
vulnerable receptors.  
• The Environment Agency should consider the need for a complaints procedure. 
Summary of actions taken: 
We have assessed the revised air dispersion modelling assessment submitted by 
the Applicant. Refer to the key issues session ‘Air Quality’ for details of our 
findings. In summary, we consider that the overall environmental risks from the 
installation will remain substantially unchanged as a result of the proposed 
variation, and we have decided to permit the 4 new engines. However, we 
consider that improvements are necessary to the environmental performance of 
the existing engines to reduce the environmental impacts from the installation as 
a whole, prior to the beginning of the operations of the 4 new engines. For this 
reason, we have specified a pre-operational condition, preventing the Applicant 
from beginning the operation of the new engines prior to obtaining the specific 
approval from the Environment Agency to the improvement plan previously set 
out for the existing engines. Improvements to the performance of the existing 
engines will result in reduced impacts both during testing and emergency 
scenarios. Furthermore, the Applicant has provided evidence to suggest that 
emergency operations of the scale modelled in the risk assessment submitted 
with the application are extremely rare and emergency running will need to be 
kept to a minimum to comply with the conditions of the permit. 
We have also specified that the Operator shall update the Air Quality 
Management Plan for the installation, in response to a new improvement 