 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 6 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
• The annual NOx and NH3 process contributions are less than 1% of the 
long-term critical levels applicable at all the ecological conservation sites 
within screening distance, hence insignificant according to our criteria. 
 
• The nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition process contributions are less 
than 1% of the long-term critical loads at all ecological conservation sites 
included in the assessment, hence the long-term impacts on conservation 
sites are insignificant according to our criteria. 
 
Assessing the risk against the long-term criteria is only part of the assessment 
and other factors are also relevant to our decision, such as whether risks are 
acceptable against short-term criteria, whether the installation, as a whole, 
implements the best available techniques applicable to the sector and whether 
the emissions are prevented or where that is not practicable minimised. This is 
discussed in the following paragraphs. 
Short-term impacts - Testing scenarios 
 
• For NO2, we refer to the short-term ES of 200 g/m3, not to be exceeded 
for more than 18 hours per year, corresponding to 99.79% of the time. 
According to the findings of our audit, exceedances of the 99.79th 
percentile 1-hour NO2 air quality standard are possible during all testing 
scenarios, should the operations coincide with the worst-case 
meteorological conditions. However, we have found that the statistical 
likelihood of exceedances occurring to be highly unlikely when using the 
hypergeometric probability distribution, in line with our guidance Specified 
generators: dispersion modelling assessment - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 
 
• When exceedances of the short-term NO2 ES are possible, although 
highly unlikely as concluded by statistical analysis, we assess the 
magnitude of the worst case NO2 predictions against acute exposure risk 
criteria. The US EPA Acute Exposure Guidelines (AEGL) were used for 
this part of the assessment. According to our findings, exceedances of the 
10-minute, 30-minute and 1-hour NO2 Acute Exposure Guidelines Level-1 
(AEGL-1) for NO2 are possible during the building load test, should the 
operations coincide with the worst-case meteorological conditions. 
 
• Exceedances of the 1-hour NO ES for human health are also possible 
during the building load test should the operations coincide with the worst-
case meteorological conditions. However, we consider this to be unlikely 
based on the operating envelope.  
 
• Based on higher daily mean NOx critical level of 200 µg/m3, that we 
consider applicable at all conservation sites included in the assessment, 
we have found that exceedances of the daily mean NOx critical level are 