 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 17 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
The overall environmental risks from the installation will remain substantially 
unchanged as a result of the proposed variation and we have decided to permit 
the 4 new engines. However, we consider that improvements are necessary to 
the environmental performance of the existing engines to reduce the 
environmental impacts from the installation as a whole, prior to the beginning of 
the operations of the 4 new engines. This is discussed in the key issues section. 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with 
the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate 
techniques for the facility, subject to completion of the improvement programme 
previously specified as part of the original environmental permit determination. 
This is discussed in the key issues section. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 
in the environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for emissions that do not screen 
out as insignificant 
Emissions of NOx cannot be screened out as insignificant. We have assessed 
whether the proposed techniques are Best Available Techniques (BAT). 
We consider that the proposed techniques/ emission levels for emissions that do 
not screen out as insignificant will meet BAT for the proposed additional 
generators in the scope of this application.  
However, the techniques/ emission levels for emissions that do not screen out as 
insignificant depart from the techniques and benchmark levels contained in the 
technical guidance for some of the existing permitted generators. We had 
specified an improvement programme for the existing generators as part of 
previous determinations. The requirements set out in in the improvement 
programme still stand and we consider that the new generators in the scope of 
this application shall not become operational before the improvement programme 
is agreed by us. Refer to the key issues section for further details. 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as 
insignificant 
Emissions of PM10 and NH3 have been screened out as insignificant, and so we 
agree that the applicant’s proposed techniques are Best Available Techniques 
(BAT) for the installation.  