 
Permit number 
EPR/TP3500PB  27 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Schedule 6 – Interpretation 
“accident” means an accident that may result in pollution. 
“application” means the application for this permit, together with any additional information supplied by the 
operator as part of the application and any response to a notice served under Schedule 5 to the EP 
Regulations. 
“authorised officer” means any person authorised by the Environment Agency under section 108(1) of The 
Environment Act 1995 to exercise, in accordance with the terms of any such authorisation, any power 
specified in section 108(4) of that Act. 
“emissions of substances not controlled by emission limits” means emissions of substances to air, water or 
land from the activities, either from the emission points specified in schedule 3 or from other localised or 
diffuse sources, which are not controlled by an emission limit. 
“EP Regulations” means The Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations SI 2016 No.1154 
and words and expressions used in this permit which are also used in the Regulations have the same 
meanings as in those Regulations. 
“existing MCP” means an MCP first put into operation before 20/12/2018.    
“gas oil” includes diesel and is defined in Article 3(19) of the MCPD.  
“groundwater” means all water, which is below the surface of the ground in the saturation zone and in direct 
contact with the ground or subsoil. 
“Industrial Emissions Directive” means DIRECTIVE 2010/75/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND 
OF THE COUNCIL of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions, as read in accordance with Schedule 1A 
to the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016. 
“MCERTS” means the Environment Agency’s Monitoring Certification Scheme.  
“Medium Combustion Plant” or ”MCP” means a combustion plant with a rated thermal input equal to or 
greater than 1 MW but less than 50 MW. 
“Medium Combustion Plant Directive” or “MCPD” means Directive 2015/2193/EU of the European Parliament 
and of the Council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion 
plants, as read in accordance with Schedule 1A to the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) 
Regulations 2016. 
“new MCP” means an MCP first put into operation on or after 20/12/2018. 
Where a minimum limit is set for any emission parameter, for example pH, reference to exceeding the limit 
shall mean that the parameter shall not be less than that limit. 
Unless otherwise stated, any references in this permit to concentrations of substances in emissions into air 
means: 
• in relation to emissions from combustion processes, the concentration in dry air at a temperature of 
273K, at a pressure of 101.3 kPa and with an oxygen content of 3% dry for liquid and gaseous fuels 6% 
dry for solid fuels; and/or 
• in relation to emissions from non-combustion sources, the concentration at a temperature of 273K and at 
a pressure of 101.3 kPa, with no correction for water vapour content  
“year” means calendar year ending 31 December. 
 
 