 
Variation and consolidation  
application number  
EPR/TP3500PB/V003  2 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Equinix Powergate  
Permit number EPR/TP3500PB 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice 
Under the Environmental Permitting (England & Wales) Regulations 2016 (schedule 5, part 1, paragraph 19) 
a variation may comprise a consolidated permit reflecting the variations and a notice specifying the variations 
included in that consolidated permit. 
Schedule 1 of the notice specifies the conditions that have been varied and schedule 2 comprises a 
consolidated permit which reflects the variations being made. All the conditions of the permit have been 
varied and are subject to the right of appeal. 
This variation adds an additional 4 new diesel generators in the new HV building of the site. Each individual 
generator is a Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) having a thermal input of approximately 6.9 MWth. The new 
engines are specified to TA Luft 2g standard and are fitted with Selective Catalytic Reduction systems to 
abate approximately 90% of the emissions of oxides of nitrogen, compared to their unabated operations. The 
operation of the additional 4 new  diesel engines is conditional to the satisfactory completion of pre-
operational conditions for future development PO1, PO2 and PO3. The total thermal input of the site is now 
approximately 199 MWth. We have also added a new improvement condition (IC08), updated the deadline of 
the outstanding improvement conditions IC01, IC02 and IC05 and amended improvement conditions IC01 
and IC05 as an Environment Agency initiated variation. 
The rest of the installation is unchanged and continues to be operated as permitted before of this variation. 
After the changes introduced by this variation, the installation operates as follows: 
The site is an electronic data storage centre which includes a Section 1.1 Part A (1)(a) activity under the  
Environmental Permitting Regulations (England and Wales) 2016 for the burning of any fuel in an appliance 
with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). The site is located in Powergate Business Park, 
North-West London. The National Grid Reference for the site is TQ 21070 82738. The site is approximately 3 
hectares in size. The surrounding area is a mix of industrial, commercial and residential uses.  
 
The combustion plant only operates during limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario. The 
emergency combustion activity comprises 33 diesel fuelled standby generators. The site consists of two data 
halls – PG1, PG2 and HP. PG1 became operational in 2008, and consists of 8 generators (each 
approximately 5.7 MWth input aggregated to approximately 46 MWth). PG2 became operational in 2012 and 
consists of 21 generators (13 generators at 5.7 MWth, and 8 generators at 6.4 MWth, a ggregated to 
approximately 126 MWth). HV, yet to be put into operation, consists of 4 engines at approximately 6.9 MWth 
each, aggregated to approximately 29 MWth) whose NOx emissions are abated with SCR systems.  Each 
generator has a stack between 5 and 17m in height. 
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all 
the generators will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load at the site. All the generators are 
subject to a maintenance testing schedule. 
 
The engines run on diesel fuel. Most engines have an individual double skinned day tanks, although some 
share these. There are 12 bulk fuel tanks to the north of PG2 which are double skinned, and within a 
concrete bund. There is one bulk tank for PG1 which is inside the building and is also double skinned. All 
fuel tanks are fitted with leak detection and level alarms.  
 
The site is covered in hardstanding outside the buildings and concrete inside. Rainwater is kept separate 
from any areas where there may be potential contaminants, and is allowed to run off to surface water 
drainage serving the trading estate. As mentioned, the bulk fuel tanks are bunded and the smaller day tanks 
are double skinned and inside buildings or generator containers, without bunds. Any water collected in 