 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 8 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Further assessment and consideration of additional impacts from the new engines 
We have carried out source attribution analysis to understand the impacts 
associated with the additional 4 new engines in the scope of this application 
against the impacts associated with the engines that are already permitted.  
The source attribution analysis suggests that the majority of the impacts are from 
the existing permitted engines, and the new engines will only contribute to a 
slight increase in predictions compared to the permitted operations.  
We have found that exceedances of the 10-minute, 30-minute and 1-hour NO2 
AEGL-1, 1-hour NO environmental standard for human health, and short-term 
NOx critical level at local conservation sites are predicted for the existing site in 
the absence of the proposed additional engines.  
Therefore, we have concluded that the overall environmental risks from the 
installation would remain substantially unchanged as a result of the proposed 
variation, and we have decided to permit the 4 new engines.  
However, we consider that improvements are necessary to the environmental 
performance of the existing engines to reduce the environmental impacts from 
the installation as a whole, prior to the beginning of the operations of the 4 new 
engines.  
In order to address the potential issues from short term impacts of NOx 
emissions, the site was required to implement an improvement programme as 
part of the original determination of the permit granted in 2020. The improvement 
programme is still under assessment and has not, at present, led to a schedule of 
improvements and a timeline for their implementation agreed by the Environment 
Agency.  
When we first permitted the site in 2020, this was an existing activity. Therefore, 
we decided to give the operator time to deliver some improvements that we 
considered were necessary and achievable.  
Some of the Improvement Conditions specified in the original permit (IC01, IC02 
and IC05) are still outstanding. In summary: 
● Improvement conditions IC01, IC02 require the Operator to carry out 
feasibility studies into retro-fitting abatement measures and installing 
vertically discharging stacks to engines consisting of horizontal stacks. 
● Improvement condition IC05 requires the Operator to submit a review of 
options for reducing predicted short term NO2 emission impacts. 
In 2021, as part of variation V002, we even allowed the operator to expand the 
operations of the installation on the basis they would deliver those improvements. 
When we granted variation V002, we remarked at that time in the Decision 
Document that the outstanding improvement conditions specified in the original 