 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 7 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
possible at the closest non-statutory local nature sites during the building 
load test should operations coincide with the worst-case meteorological 
conditions.  
 
• We have found that daily mean NOx process contributions at statutory 
conservation sites within screening distance are predicted to be 
insignificant during all testing scenarios. 
 
 
Short-term impacts - Emergency scenario 
• Exceedances of the 99.79th percentile 1-hour NO2 Environmental 
Standard are predicted if the emergency operations occur for 19 hours or 
more during the worst-case meteorological conditions. We have used the 
hypergeometric probability distribution to assess the likelihood of 
exceedances occurring. We have found that the statistical likelihood of 
exceedances would be <5% provided emergency operations do not occur 
for more than 55 hours per year. We consider a <5% chance of 
exceedances to be unlikely. The Applicant has provided evidence, based 
on their operational history since 2008, suggesting that emergency 
operations of the scale modelled in the air emissions assessment 
submitted with the application are extremely rare. This is consistent with 
our regulatory experience of similar sites. 
 
• Exceedances of the 1-hour NO environmental standard are possible, 
should emergency operations occur during the worst-case meteorological 
conditions. 
 
• Exceedances of the 10-minute, 30-minute and 1-hour NO2 AEGL-1 are 
predicted, should emergency operations occur during the worst-case 
meteorological conditions. 
 
• Exceedances of the daily mean NO x critical level are predicted at the 
closest local nature sites should emergency operations occur during the 
worst-case meteorological conditions. 
 
• We find that daily mean NO x PCs are predicted to be not insignificant at 
Richmond Park SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC should emergency 
operations occur continuously for 24 hours during the worst -case 
meteorological conditions, however, the PECs do not exceed the critical 
level. Furthermore, as the applicant has provided evidence to suggest that 
emergency operations are extremely rare, we consider impacts to statutory 
conservation sites as a result of emergency outages to be very unlikely. 
 
 
 