 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 10 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested 
and used in a planned way for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without 
ELVs under the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) and Medium Combustion 
Plant Directive (MCPD). The Environment Agency expects planned testing and 
generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations.  
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from the 4 new 
engines corresponding to emission points A222 to A225 (PG2-22 to PG2-25 as 
referenced in Schedule 7 Site plan in the permit), which are new medium 
combustion plant, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 hours of 
operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been 
included in the permit in order to comply with the requirements of Medium 
Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD), which specifies the minimum requirements 
for monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced 
operating hours of the plant.  
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from 
the same emission points, with the same frequency specified for the monitoring 
of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied 
our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in 
concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk 
associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.   
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set a requirement for the first monitoring of carbon monoxide and NOx 
to happen within 4 months of the issue date of the permit variation or the date 
when each new medium combustion plant is first put into operation, whichever is 
later. 
We have also specified continuous process monitoring of levels of nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) from A222 to A225 (PG2-22 to PG2-25 as referenced in Schedule 
7 Site plan) because these generators are fitted with SCR systems, hence we 
consider this monitoring necessary to ensure the effective operations of the 
abatement system, to prevent excessive ammonia slip and to dose the right 
amount of urea solution. Because this monitoring is not specified to assess 
compliance with emission limits, we are satisfied that it will not require 
certification to MCERTS standards.  
 