 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 23 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
condition (IC08). According to our guidance, the Air Quality Management Plan 
must cover the response measures to be taken in the event of a grid failure.  
The installation is required to operate according to a written environmental 
management system according to condition 1.1.1 of the permit. This condition 
specifies that the Operator must take action to minimise risks drawn to the 
attention of the operator as a result of complaints. According to our guidance 
‘Develop a management system: environmental permits’, the Operator is required 
to implement a complaint procedure within the site’s environmental management 
system.  
 
Response received from: Ealing Council, Environment Protection 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
The Ealing Council informed us about the conditions of the planning consent 
granted to for the expansion of the site, requiring demonstration to the Local 
Planning Authority of compliance with a minimum NOx emissions standard of 
150mg/Nm3 (at 5% O2) and evidence of installation of suitable abatement to meet 
this emission level. 
Summary of actions taken: 
The Applicant revised the application initially submitted to us, to account for the 
requirement of the Local Authority planning consent. According to the revised 
application documents, the 4 new engines installed in the HV building will be 
fitted with SCR systems capable of reducing NOx emissions of approximately 
90% in comparison to unabated operations, to levels that are consistent with the 
planning requirements. In acceptance of the revised proposal submitted by the 
Applicant, we have specified the use of the SCR systems for the new engines in 
the scope of this variation in the operating techniques table of the permit (table 
S1.2), in the emission table (S3.1) and in the process monitoring requirements 
table (S3.3). Since the engines operate for less than 500 hours per year, we 
consider that the specification of emission limits is not required. Refer to the key 
issues section for additional details. 