 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 11 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power 
operation’ such as demand side response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term 
operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and Frequency 
Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to 
differentiate data centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the 
balancing market and importantly provide a clear way to demonstrate 
minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air 
quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, phasing engines into 
subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and 
most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The Applicant has assessed and provided evidence of the actual reliability of the 
local electricity grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency to judge that 
the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an 
emergency mode is low. However, the atmospheric dispersion modelling 
provided in the application, albeit at very much worst-case scenario, has 
predicted that the emissions of NO2 from operation of the generators for solely 
testing purposes over weekends may itself have the potential to exceed short 
term air quality standards. Some of the improvement conditions included in the 
permit to address this in the original application remain relevant and have now 
been combined with a pre-operational condition forbidding the operator to begin 
operating the new engines prior to obtaining the specific approval from the 
Environment Agency to this improvement plan (see above).  
We have also: 
● Specified an additional improvement condition (IC08) requesting the 
operator to update the site Air Quality Management Plan to include the 
risks arising from the proposed new engines. This is because the 
installation operates under and approved Air Quality Management Plan 
that needs updating to reflect the changes to the operations after this 
variation. 
● Specified an additional pre-operational condition requesting the operator 
to provide the schedule and assess the risks associated with the 
commissioning phase for the proposed new engines. This is because, we 
asked for this information during the determination of this variation 
application, but the Applicant was not able to respond since the 
commissioning plan was not defined yet at that time.  
● Specified a pre-operational condition requiring the operator to validate the 
performance of the SCR systems during the commissioning of the engines 
and to propose a plan to periodically calibrate the NOx sensors governing 
the dosing of urea solution. 