 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 16 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the 
screening distances we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations. The 
application is within our screening distances for these designations.  
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature 
conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process.  
The improvement plan included in the original permit to protect the Local Wildlife 
Sites are still outstanding. The additional 4 generators permitted by this variation 
are not likely to change the environmental risks posed by the operations of the 
installation, however we have specified that their operation is conditional to 
satisfactory progress on the historical improvement programme that is still 
outstanding.  
The installation is within relevant screening distance from the following statutory 
conservation sites: 
- Richmond Park (SAC), 8 km South of the installation and 
- Wimbledon Common (SAC), 9.5 km South-South East of Site. 
Based on the conclusions of our audit of the air emissions risk assessment, we 
consider that the installation will not be likely to cause significant effect to either 
conservation site.  
Further details are discussed in the key issues section. 
We have not consulted Natural England. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the 
facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
The assessment shows that, applying the conservative criteria in our guidance on 
environmental risk assessment all emissions may be screened out as 
environmentally insignificant with the exception of short-term emission of NOx 
during testing and emergency operation. 