 
EPR/TP3530DV/A001 
Date issued: 27/02/18 
 2 
 Service A/B – the generators are tested in banks of 4. One generator is turned on and the other 3 are 
turned on and synchronised up to 100%. 4 generators will run for 1 hour at a time. T his is done once 
a year. Additionally, a service test is carried out at 6 month intervals, when each generator is run for 5 
minutes.  
 Pull the plug scenario – originally all 65 generators were started for 15 minutes then auto -ramped 
down to meet the load demand of the site, with only 22 generators running for the remaining 45 
minutes. To reduce emission levels, the site will manually reduce the number of generators for the 
required test of the system. This will result in 23 generators less, a reduction of 35% of generators 
running.  
The site is located on a trading estate to the southwest of the London Orbital. The National Grid Reference 
for the site is 498500,159260. The site is approximately 3.9 hectares in size. The surrounding area is a mix 
of industrial, commercial and residential uses. 
There is no sewer connection related to the process. 
Air Quality  
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO2) resulting from the combustion process 
on site. The Applicant has submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the potential impact of 
emission of NO2 from the generators on local air quality.  
The data centre is not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and there are no AQMAs within 
2km of the site.  
Our Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit (AQMAU) audited the air dispersion modelling and report 
submitted with the permit application. Both the maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the 
modelling were assessed. 
 
Maintenance testing 
The applic ant has  modelled continuous operation for the maintenance scenario  which is a worst case 
approach. 
The PEC exceeds 100% of the short-term human health and ecological EQSs at a number of receptor locations 
and therefore further investigation was  required to look at the actual likelihood of the process resulting in a 
breach of the E QSs. T he Applicant completed  statistical analysis to determine the likelihood of the worst 
predicted emissions coinciding with the worst meterological years, and subsequently causing a breach of the 
short-term EQSs. The approach followed the approach set out in the following report ‘Diesel generator short 
term NO2 impact assessment ’ dated 01/11/2016 to calculate the likelihood. The results show that there is a 
negligible risk of the process resulting in an exceedence of the EQSs and we agree with this conclusion.  
Improvement condition IC2 is specified in the permit which requires the operator to produce a report 
outlining the details of the annual maintenance operating regime following the first year of operation 
following permitting to validate the information provided with the permit application. 
Emergency scenario 
Although the site has operated for approximately 8 years without being required to operate in emergency 
mode, the air quality modelling does indicate that the emergency outage operating scenario could pose a 
risk to local air quality and identified receptors for short term NO 2. As a result, improvement condition IC4 
requires the Operator to submit a review of options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide 
emissions impacts for the grid failure emergency scenario. In the short term this concern will be addressed 
through the Air Quality Management Plan required by improvement condition IC1. 
The EA has specified that the operator shall  have a written action plan to manage the issue for prolonged 
emergency running of the plant (including sensitive receptors list and mitigations, assessments and impacts 
evaluation against modelled risk conditions i.e. occurrence at periods of most concern  in the year, possibly 
ambient air monitoring surveillance at very sensitive receptors) . This needs to be proportionate to the level of 
risk at the receptors. The operator is expected to work with the local authority to develop this plan to ensure 
local factors are fully considered. 
A Schedule 5 notice was issued requesting additional information on potential improvements that could be 
made on site such as upgrading of generators or increased stack heights to improve dispersion of NO 2. 
Improvement condition IC4 requires the Operator to expand of their response to this information request and 