 
EPR/TP3530DV/A001 
Date issued: 27/02/18 
 5 
Decision checklist  
Aspect considered Decision 
Receipt of application 
Confidential information A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality.  
Identifying confidential 
information  
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that 
we consider to be confidential.  
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality.  
Consultation 
Consultation The consultation requirements were identified in accordance with the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations and our public participation 
statement. 
The application was publicised on the GOV.UK website. 
We consulted the following organisations: 
Environmental Health – Woking Council 
Food Standards Agency 
Health and Safety Executive 
Public Health England and Director of Public Health 
The comments and our responses are summarised in the consultation 
section. 
Operator 
Control of the facility We are satisfied that the applicant (now the operator) is the person who will 
have control over the operation of the facility after the grant of the permit. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on legal operator 
for environmental permits. 
The facility 
The regulated facility We considered the extent and nature of the facility at the site in accordance 
with RGN2 ‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of 
RGN 2 ‘Defining the scope of the installation’, Appendix 1 of RGN 2 
‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’, guidance on waste recovery plans and 
permits. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The 
activities are defined in table S1.1 of the permit. 
The site 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, 
showing the extent of the site of the facility. The plan is included in the 
permit. 
Site condition report 
 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which 
we consider is satisfactory. Based on the site condition report, we consider 
that appropriate pollution prevention measures are in place and that the 
pollution of land and water is unlikely. The decision was taken in 
accordance with our guidance on site condition reports. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat. 
 
See key issues section for additional information. 
 
We have sent an Appendix 11 to Natural England for information only. The 
decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. An Appendix 4 was 
saved to our electronic document records management system (EDRM) for 
audit purposes only.  
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk 
 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk 
from the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory, however we have included 
improvement conditions to ensure additional considerations of risk relating 
to emissions to air are considered on an ongoing basis. 
 
See key issues section above. 
Operating techniques 