 
Permit number 
EPR/TP3530DV 11 
 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be limited 
to the following considerations:  
 The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
 Specific timescales for response measures; 
 How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or time 
of day; 
 Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the event 
scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
 Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
31/08/2018 
IC2 The operator shall produce a report outlining the maintenance and 
operating regime following the first year of operation following permitting. 
This shall include but is not limited to the following points:  
 A demonstration of the reduction in generator use that the 
revised ‘pull the plug’ operating scenario has achieved; 
 An update on the control systems used to carry out the testing of 
the generators and how these have been used to minimise 
emissions; and 
 Any additional improvements that have been identified to reduce 
emissions during the maintenance testing and operation of the 
generators. This should include timescales for the 
implementation of the improvements.  
The operator shall submit this report in writing to the Environment Agency 
for approval. 
30/04/2019 
IC3 The operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency verifying 
the predicted short-term nitrogen dioxide concentrations at the boundary 
of the site. The report shall include but is not limited to: 
 Monitoring of ambient air quality at the boundary of the site during 
the ‘pull the plug’ operating scenario using monitoring methods 
agreed in advance with the Environment Agency  
 A comparison of modelled against monitored concentrations of 
nitrogen dioxide 
 A demonstration that appropriate monitoring location(s) were 
selected at the boundary of the site, taking into account the 
modelled predictions and the weather conditions prevalent at the 
time of the monitoring 
 Evidence to demonstrate that the monitoring team holds 
appropriate qualifications. 
The output of the verification exercise should be used to revise the air 
quality management plan if necessary. 
31/08/2019 
IC4 The operator shall submit a review of options for reducing predicted short 
term nitrogen dioxide emissions impacts. This shall include but is not 
limited to:  
 Considerations of the conclusions of the validation exercise 
specified in improvement condition 3 to inform a feasibility study 
including cost benefit analysis for potential upgrades or other 
29/02/2020 