 
EPR/TP3530DV/A001 
Date issued: 27/02/18 
 3 
submit a review of options for reducing predicted short term nitrogen dioxide emissions impacts for the grid 
failure emergency scenario – see section on BAT below for further information.  
We have also specified improvement condition IC3 requiring the operator to determine the actual short term 
NOx concentrations at the site boundary through monitoring to contribute to the validation of conclusions 
reached in the air quality assessment within the application and to inform the air quality management plan .  
Permit conditions 
The permit  will include a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity; and thereby emission limit values ELVs to 
air (and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation 
includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure 
associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring under IED/MCPD. Though 
clearly the EA expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and 
durations (subject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘el ective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid  short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off -site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support . This is primarily to differentiate  data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market , and importantly a clear way 
to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘Emergency plant’. 
Operations and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air quality modelling by minimising 
the duration of testing, phasing engines into subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off -grid 
maintenance days and  most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 
The permit application must assess and provide evidence of actual reliability data for the local electricity grid 
distribution (including data centre internal electrical design) for the EA to judge the realistic likelihood of the 
plant needing to operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode (especially if emissions model so as to 
exceed short term air quality standards). 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) req uires both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
Noise 
The primary noise sources on site are the generators, chillers, fans and transformers. An acoustic barrier has 
been constructed along the western elevation of the site. The generators are located within acoustic containers 
to reduce sound emissions. Previous noise complaints from the adjacent residents were received regarding 
noise from the transformers and fans. 
The Applicant submitted a no ise survey with the permit application to assess the effectiveness of a noise 
barrier installed at the site. The noise barrier was erected to mitigate fan and transformer noise from a series 
of HV cabins to the south west side of the main building. The key findings were as follows:  
Noise levels recorded in the car parks on Willowmead Close (c hosen to represent the nearest a ffected 
residential boundary) are 7 -10 dB lower than those measured prior to the construction of the noise barrier in 
2012. The noise b arrier consisted of a 7.5m high acoustic screen constructed from a steel frame faced with 
acoustic panels and steel cladding. Predicted worst case exceedances of approximately 12 dB and 20dB were 
anticipated. 
Noise at the fence line has reduced by around 15-21 dBA. Noise monitoring data recorded prior to installation 
supports this conclusion. However, the noise generated by the transformers and fans has varied between the 
2012 and 2014 surveys and therefore the comparison only provides a general indication of the effectiveness 
of the barriers. 
  