 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 9 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
permit determination were relied upon as a condition necessary to reduce the 
overall environmental impact of the installation.  
The Applicant is now seeking a further expansion even though they have yet to 
deliver on the original improvement plan. So, even though the additional engines 
are of a high standard (in accordance with the requirements of the planning 
conditions granted by the local authority), we do not consider there should be any 
increase in emissions from the installation until there are firm proposals to deliver 
improvements that have been a requirement since 2020.   
We must exercise our functions under Schedule 7 paragraph 3 of the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations 2016 to prevent or where that is not 
practicable minimise emissions into air. We would not be doing that if we simply 
allowed the Applicant to add to the existing emissions when they have failed to 
reduce those emissions in accordance with previous requirements as the overall 
impact from the installation would be higher than is practicable. We have already 
allowed an extension on the assumption they would deliver improvements, but 
they still have not done this and we are not prepared to allow them to begin 
operating additional engines until we have firm proposals and timescales in 
relation to the existing emissions to ensure the cumulative impact remains as low 
as practicable and a high level of protection for the environment is achieved.   
We therefore don’t consider it acceptable that the installation is expanded before 
the historical improvement programme is progressed to our satisfaction.  
Hence, we have specified a pre-operational condition requiring that, prior to the 
commissioning of the 4 new  engines in the scope of this variation application, 
the operator must obtain a formal written approval from the Environment Agency 
to a detailed and substantiated plan setting out the actions and their 
implementation timeline to improve the environmental performance of the 
installation and reduce the emissions of oxides of nitrogen from the existing 
permitted engines, as a follow-up to the outstanding improvement conditions 
IC01, IC02 and IC05 already set out in the permit.  
The permit forbids the operator to begin the operation of the proposed 4 new 
engines, corresponding to emission points A222 to A225 (PG2-22 to PG2-25 as 
referenced in Schedule 7 Site plan of the permit), prior to obtaining the specific 
approval from the Environment Agency to this improvement plan.  
 
Other permit conditions  
The permit includes a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby 
operational limit’ for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits 
of the combustion activity. Therefore, emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not 
required within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned 