 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 13 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Permit application, detailing the choice of technology for the 4 new generators in 
their standby arrangement. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000 mg/m3 or less. The 4 new 
generators have unabated emissions of NOx to levels that are consistent with the 
2g TA-Luft specification.  
Furthermore, as a condition of the Planning Approval for the new HV building, 
which was determined ‘Grant with Conditions’ on the 12th December 2022, the 
local authority, Ealing Council, has required the Applicant to meet emission levels 
of NOx that require the installation of SCR systems onto the four additional 
generators that will be installed in the HV building. NOx emissions will reduce 
approximately 90% as a result of the addition of the SCR abated systems 
compared to unabated operations.  
We are therefore satisfied that the new engines in the scope of this variation 
application will meet our BAT requirements.  
However, since we determine BAT holistically for the whole installation, and 
some of the existing 29 permitted engines were determined not to meet BAT 
standards in the original determination of the permit application and the previous 
variation V002, we consider necessary that the beginning of the operation of the 
4 new  engines is subject to the operator demonstrating substantial progress in 
the attainment of the improvement programme specified as part of the previous 
determinations for the existing engines. Refer to ‘Air Quality’ section above for 
further details.  
In order to minimise the need for emergency operation, the data centre has two 
separate substation electrical power feeds. This dual substation supply means 
that if emergency repair of some electrical infrastructure is required, the site will 
generally be able to remain connected to the national grid. To address short term 
fluctuations, brown-outs or black-outs, the site has uninterruptable power 
supplies. This can supply power for six minutes, until the generators kick in. The 
Applicant has provided evidence to suggest that emergency operations of the 
scale modelled in the risk assessment submitted with the application are 
extremely rare. 
Protection of soil and groundwater 
Most of the installed generators have individual double skinned day tanks. There 
are: 
● 7 day tanks in PG1 (no change with this variation);  
● 17 day tanks in PG2 (no change with this variation); and 
● 4 new day tanks in HV, being introduced by this variation.  