 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 2 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Key issues of the decision 
Description of the installation 
The site is located on Powergate Business Park in North West London. The 
National Grid Reference for the site is TQ 21070 82738. The surrounding area is 
a mix of industrial, commercial and residential uses. 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) 
activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 
2016 (as amended) for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated 
thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). 
The combustion plant only operates during limited routine maintenance or in an 
emergency scenario. The emergency combustion activity now comprises 33 
diesel fuelled standby generators: the initial permit, granted in 2020, included 22 
standby generators; additional 7 standby generators were permitted in 2021; this 
variation allows for additional 4 standby generators. 
The site consists of three buildings – PG1, PG2 and the new HV – 
accommodating the following sets of standby generators: 
● PG1 was built in 2008 and consists of 8 generators each approximately 
5.7 MWth (aggregated to approximately 46 MWth). This has not changed 
with this variation. 
● PG2 was built in 2012 and consists of 21 generators: 13 generators each 
approximately 5.7 MWth, and 8 generators each approximately 6.4 MWth, 
aggregated to approximately 126 MWth. This has not changed with this 
variation. 
● HV, being built at the time of the application, consists of 4 generators each 
approximately 6.9 MWth, aggregated to approximately 27.6 MWth, in the 
scope of this variation application. 
Each generator has a stack between 5 and 17 metres in height. 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, 
in the event of a failure in the electrical supply, the Operator will utilise the 
generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators will be used solely 
for the purpose of generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported 
from the installation. The standby generators are designed and configured so that 
in the event of a mains failure all the generators will fire up then subsequently 
ramp down to meet the load at the site. All the generators are subject to a 
maintenance testing schedule. 
The generators run on ultra-low sulphur diesel fuel stored in 13 bulk diesel tanks, 
double skinned with a leak detection system, and installed within concrete bunds 