 
Permit number 
EPR/TP3500PB  16 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC06 The operator shall produce a report outlining the maintenance and 
operating regime following the first year of operation following 
permitting. This shall include but is not limited to the following points:  
• An update on the control systems used to carry out the 
testing of the generators and how these have been used to 
minimise emissions; and 
• Any additional improvements that have been identified to 
reduce emissions during the maintenance testing and 
operation of the generators. This should include timescales 
for the implementation of the improvements.  
The operator shall submit this report in writing to the Environment 
Agency for approval. 
Any agreed proposals shall be implemented by the operator in line 
with the timescales agreed by the Environment Agency 
Completed 
IC07 The operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to 
be taken in the event of a grid failure. This should include but not be 
limited to the following considerations:  
• The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted 
potential impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at 
individual receptors;  
• Specific timescales for response measures; 
• How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
• Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
• Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The agreed Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency for approval. 
Completed 
IC08 Updated Air Quality Management Plan 
The operator shall submit an updated version the Air Quality 
Management Plan to the Environment Agency for confirmation, 
written in accordance with IC07 to include the operations of the 
additional four new engines corresponding to emission points A222 
to A225 (PG2-22 to PG2-25 as referenced in Schedule 7 Site plan) 
permitted by variation V003. 
28 March 2024 or as 
agreed in writing with 
the Environment 
Agency 
 
 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures for future development 
Reference Operation Pre-operational measures 
PO1 Operation of the 
engines 
corresponding to 
emission points 
A222 to A225 
(PG2-22 to PG2-25 
as referenced in 
Schedule 7 Site 
Improvement programme 
Prior to the commissioning of the 4 new engines in the scope of 
this variation application, the operator shall have obtained the 
Environment Agency’s written approval to the reports, review and 
plans submitted in response to the outstanding improvement 
conditions IC01, IC02 and IC05. The commissioning of the 4 new 
engines shall not begin prior to having obtained the written 