 
 EPR/TP3500PB/V003   Page 12 of 23 
OFFICIAL 
OFFICIAL 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any 
electrical outages (both those planned and those resulting from grid failures 
regardless of duration) require both immediate notification to the Environment 
Agency and annual reporting. 
Noise 
The Applicant reviewed and updated the Noise Management Plan and Noise 
Impact Assessment as part of the variation application. The site will only run the 
engines regularly as part of the testing regime described earlier, for short periods 
of time. This occurs during daytime hours at the weekend. Prolonged operation 
might only occur in an emergency situation where the National Grid supply is lost. 
The Applicant has provided evidence to suggest that emergency operations are 
extremely rare. As such this is deemed a low risk and the potential for prolonged 
noise is therefore considered to be low. 
The Applicant has taken measures to minimise noise emissions: 
● The existing PG1 generators are located within acoustic containers (no 
change with this variation); 
● The existing PG2 generators are located: 
o within the PG2 building; or 
o within acoustic containers to the north of the PG2 building. 
There are no changes with this variation to the noise mitigation measures 
relating to the existing PG2 generators; 
● The proposed four new generators will be housed within the HV building, 
again to the north of the PG2 building. Fresh air intake acoustic louvres 
will be located at ground level whilst the generator exhausts and air outlets 
will be on top of the building. The design includes acoustic louvres for the 
air inlet and silencers for the outlet / exhaust for the new generators. 
Due to the nature of the operation and measures implemented, we consider the 
installation to be low risk in relation to noise, so a detailed assessment of the 
submitted noise report has not been completed. Permit condition 3.4.2 enables 
the Environment Agency to request a revised Noise Management Plan if 
considered necessary in the future. 
Best Available Techniques (BAT)  
We accept that oil-fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. The Operator reviewed and 
updated the BAT assessment submitted as part of the original Environmental 