 
EPR/TP3530DV/A001 
Date issued: 27/02/18 
 1 
 
Permitting decisions  
Bespoke permit  
We have decided to grant the permit for Woking Data Centre operated by Digital Realty (UK) Limited. 
The permit number is EPR/TP3530DV. 
We consider in reaching that decision we have taken into account all relevant considerations and legal 
requirements and that the permit will ensure that the appropriate level of environmental protection is 
provided. 
Purpose of this document 
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It summarises the decision 
making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors have been taken in to account.  
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It: 
• highlights key issues in the determination 
• summarises the decision making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors 
have been taken into account 
• shows how we have considered the consultation responses. 
Unless the decision document specifies otherwise we have accepted the applicant’s proposals.  
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit.  The introductory note 
summarises what the permit covers. 
Key issues of the decision 
Description of the installation 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Schedule 1 Part A(1) 1.1 activity under the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 or more megawatts (MW). 
The combustion plant comprises 65 diesel fuelled standby generators. 55 of the generators have a thermal 
input of 3.16MWth, 8 generators at 4.15MWth and 2 generators at 3.3MWth each. The aggregated total 
combustion capacity on site is 214MWth. No electricity will be exported from the installation.   
The standby generators are powered using diesel which is stored in double skinned tanks below the 
generators. The tanks vary in size from 19,000 litres up to 46,000 litres. The site has a total diesel storage 
capacity of 1.5 million litres. The site is covered in hardstanding and surface water gullies drain into an oil 
interceptor prior to discharge from site. The fuel tanks are fitted with leakage alarms. 
Each generator has an exhaust, approximately 6.4m above ground level.  
The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all the generators 
will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load demand at the site. All the generators are subject 
to a testing schedule which is as follows:  
 Monthly testing – generators are started off load and run for 2-3 minutes, one at a time.  
