 
EPR/TP3530DV/A001 
Date issued: 27/02/18 
 7 
Consultation 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on GOV.UK for 
the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Response received on 29/03/17 from 
Public Health England   
Brief summary of issues raised 
 Recommendation that any Environmental Permit issued for the site should contain conditions to 
ensure that the potential emissions from the installation do not impact upon public health.  
 Recommendation that the Environment Agency should assess the modelling undertaken f or the 
diesel generators to check whether it is robust.  
 The worst case scenario modelled concentrations indicate that the emissions could pose a potential 
short-term adverse risk to public health, however the probability of the risk is predicted to be low  as the 
generators are tested infrequently and the site has a dual connection to the grid. 
 The applicant has provided limited detail on abatement / mitigation for the air emissions from the 
diesel generators. The Environment Agency may wish to assess wheth er measures to limit nitrogen 
dioxide emissions from the generators have been fully consider ed by the applicant to limit any potential 
impacts on local air quality.  
 Recommendation that the Environment Agency consults the Local Authority, the Food Standards 
Agency and the Director of Public Health.  
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
We carried out an assessment of the air quality modelling provided with the permit Application. Our Air 
Quality Assessment and Modelling team audited the assessment. As outlined in the key issues above, we 
agree with the Applicant’s conclusions, that the maintenance scenario is unlikely to cause an exceedence 
of the EQSs. The site has not operated in emergency scenario in 8 years, however we have specif ied a 
number of improvement conditions which require the operator to carry out additional work in relation to the 
potential short term predictions resulting from the emergency scenario. These include working with the 
Local Authority to put together an Air Quality Management Plan and considering additional measures that 
could be put in place to reduce potential emissions of short term NOx  which could include abatement 
measures.  
We consulted the Local Authority, the Food Standards Agency and the Director of Public Health. No 
responses to our consultation were received.  
 
We also consulted with Environmental Health – Woking Council, Food Standards Agency, the Health and 
Safety Executive and the Director of Public Health and received no responses.  
 