 
EPR/TP3530DV/A001 
Date issued: 27/02/18 
 4 
The operator confirmed that no complaints in relation to the fan or transformer noise have been received 
following the installation of the noise barrier. One additional noise complaint was received in 2016 in relatio n 
to the waste bin collection and the collection time was rearranged in response. A quarterly audit of compliance 
against a number of noise indicators is carried out at the installation. An incident reporting procedure is 
contained within the environmental  management system. Although no noise management plan has been 
requested to date, condition 3.4 enables the Environment Agency to request one if considered necessary in 
the future.  
BAT 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the particular 
configuration and plant sizing meeting the standby arrangement. 
 
The default generator specification as a minimum f or new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3. The 
generator specifications on the site have emissions significantly higher tha n this. The BAT assessment 
attributed this to the generators being on site when it was purchased. We do acknowledge that it would not be 
practicable to require the operator at this stage to upgrade all plant to BAT standards.  However upgrade of 
some plant could be conside red as part of the requirement to reduce short term nitrogen dioxide outli ned in 
improvement condition IC4.  
 
Retrofit abatement techniques for existing installations for engine emissions such as selective catalytic 
reduction (SCR) would not normally be ex pected for standby plant to mitigate the emissions for 
standby/emergency operation. The Applicant confirmed that they will carry out further investigation into 
reductions in short term NOx and may consider options such as changes to operational control of the plant, 
modifications to the flue gas dispersion or installation of reduction equipment. Options such as this will need 
to be considered further through the response to improvement condition IC4. 
 
The site is powered off a 132kVa grid system, with two electrical incomers onto the site. Both incomers supply 
the site with electricity, but the site can also be supported by either supply in isolation.  
 
Protection of Groundwater 
 
The site is covered in hardstanding. Diesel tanks are double skinned and part of  a preventative maintenance 
programme. Leak detection alarms are installed within the tanks. Each set of generators are housed within 
bunded containers. Fuel lines to generators are enclosed.  
 
Storm drains in the generator compound run into the petrol / oil interceptor located under the car park. The 
interceptor is cleaned on an annual basis. 
 
Each set of generators are housed within bunded  containers sufficient to contain complete loss of all fluids 
held within the generator / engine. Spill prevention kits are located in the plant areas.  
 
Fuel is supplied to the engine by a suction pump. A float switch is present in the tank to detect the l evel of 
liquid. Fuel fill points are bunded. Oil interceptors have been installed on the drainage system surrounding the 
fuel tank/fill points. 
 
  