 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 4 of 16 
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the installation are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) resulting from the combustion process on site. 
We don’t consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil, resulting in negligible emissions of sulphur. 
 
Hydrocarbon emissions were also assessed by the Applicant, but we consider 
that these will be negligible for modern and well-maintained efficient generators 
which allow for the complete combustion of the fuel with the appropriate 
combustion conditions in line with the equipment manufacturer’s specification.  
 
The Applicant  submitted an  air quality risk assessment with their  application: 
document titled ‘Dispersion Modelling Assessment London Two’, dated May 2019. 
In response to a Schedule 5 Notice (dated 5 June 2023) an updated air quality risk 
assessment was submitted, document titled: ‘Air Quality Assessment Update at 
Zenium London Two AQ1014’ , dated July 2023. This report supersedes the 
pervious air quality assessment. O ur assessment is based on the updated Air 
Quality Assessment dated July 2023. 
The Air Quality Assessment  included an air dispersion modelling study which 
assessed the potential impact on local air quality of emissions from the generators. 
Both the maintenance/testing and emergency scenarios were assessed within the 
modelling exercise. The ADMS 5 software dispersion model was used to predict 
atmospheric concentrations of the identified pollutants; we accept that the use of 
this model is appropriate for these circumstances. 
The model used 5 years meteorological data (2013 -2017) from the  Heathrow 
Airport meteorological station and included the potential effects of buildings and 
terrain in the modelling domain on the dispersion of the emitted pollutants. 
The data centre is situated within the Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) 
declared by the London Borough of Hillingdon for NO2. 
We have  audited the air dispersion modelling report s and carried out check 
modelling and sensitivity analysis. The audit has reviewed the selection of 
modelling inputs, modelling methodology and assumptions, selection and 
distribution of receptors, the outputs of the modelling exercise  and conclusions of 
the assessment.  
 
Testing (scenario 1) 
The applicant modelled the testing operation of the generators according to the 
schedules outlined in the ‘Operating Scenarios ’ section above.  The Applicant’s 
assessment is summarised below: 
 