 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 13 of 16 
more than 30 -minutes as a result of a power outage in at least 5 years. T he 
structural preventative measures taken to avoid the occurrence of this emergency 
scenario make the source/pathway/receptor mechanism very unlikely to occur. For 
the installation, we consider that the reasonably likely source/pathway/receptor 
mechanism would consist of periodic testing operations of the engines (Scenario 
1). For Scenario 1 the modelling showed that process contributions at all LWSs 
are predicted to be below 100% of the ES.  
We have set improvement condition (IC3) to require the Operator to reduce NO x 
emissions further by reviewing the testing regime and assessing other 
opportunities to reduce emissions. The additional measures specified under IC3 
are expected to achieve a reduction of impacts during both the testing and 
emergency operations. 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature 
conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any site of nature conservation, 
landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats identified. 
We have not consulted Natural England. A Stage 1 Habitats Regulations 
Assessment (HRA) was sent to Natural England for information only. The 
decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the 
facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with 
the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate 
techniques for the facility. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 
in the environmental permit. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit 
values in line with technical guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will 