 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 2 of 16 
 
Key issues of the decision 
Overview of the Installation  
The site is an existing data centre which includes back-up generation capacity, a 
Schedule 1 S1.1 Part A(1) (a) activity under the Environmental Permitting 
Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 
50 or more megawatts (MW)). The installation also includes a Directly Associated 
Activity (DAA) for diesel bulk storage tanks, accompanying pipe work and fill 
points. 
The site is located in the Prologis Distribution Park, Stockley Road, West 
Drayton. The National Grid Reference for the site is TQ 07859 79305. The 
surrounding area is predominantly commercial and residential in use. 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an 
emergency scenario if the National Grid power supply fails. The combustion 
activity comprises 16 diesel-fuelled standby generators (SBGs) (seven AVK 
generators with individual thermal capacities of 5.03MWth and nine CAT 
generators with individual thermal capacities of 5.71MWth). The aggregated total 
combustion capacity on site is approximately 86.6 MWth. The SBGs are 
designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all the generators 
will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load demand at the site. 
The operational capacity of the generators at the time of a blackout would be 
dependent on extent of blackout. Each generator has its own vertical stack; the 
AVK generator stacks are approximately 5.1 m above ground level and the CAT 
generator stacks are approximately 9.6 m. 
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. In the 
event of a failure of this electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to 
maintain power to the datacentre. The generators will be used solely for the 
purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation. The redundancy arrangement for both generator 
configurations is n+1. This is when the site is at full electrical load. This 
arrangement means that there is a generator spare should one fail to start. 
 
The generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule with each set of 
generators being tested quarterly for one hour. Testing of each set is scheduled 
to occur at separate times during the quarter to limit the generation of emissions 
to air. Further detail of the testing regime is given in the ‘Operating Scenarios’ 
section below. 
 
The engines are run on diesel. Fuel is supplied from double skinned ‘belly tanks’ 
(meaning they are located directly beneath the generators). The installation will 
generally store enough diesel to provide 72 hours’ worth of electricity to the site 
from the AVK generators and 48 hours from the CAT generators. The tanks are 