Permit number                              
EPR/TP3839QU 2 
London Two  
Permit number EPR/TP3839QU 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site is an existing data centre which includes back-up generation capacity, a Schedule 1 S1.1 Part A(1) 
(a) activity under the Environmental Permitting Regulations (the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a 
rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW)). The site is located in the Prologis Distribution Park, 
Stockley Road, West Drayton. The National Grid Reference for the site is TQ 07859 79305. 
The combustion plant only operates under limited routine maintenance or in an emergency scenario  if the 
National Grid power supply fails. The combustion activity comprises 16 diesel-fuelled standby generators 
(seven AVK generators with individual thermal capacities of 5.03MWth and nine CAT generators with 
individual thermal capacities of 5.71MWth). The aggregated total combustion capacity on site is 
approximately 86.6 MWth. Each generator has its own vertical stack; the AVK generator stacks are 
approximately 5.1 m above ground level and the CAT generator stacks are approximately 9.6 m. 
 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. In the event of a failure of this 
electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain power to the datacentre. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose of providing a back-up power supply, with no electricity being exported 
from the installation. The redundancy arrangement for both generator configurations is n+1. This is when the 
site is at full electrical load. This arrangement means that there is a generator spare should one fail to start. 
 
The generators are subject to a maintenance testing schedule with each set of generators being tested 
quarterly. All AVK Generators will run consecutively for one hour each quarter (12:00 to 13:00 on one 
Wednesday a quarter) and the CAT Generators would be operated during the same time period for the 
following Wednesday, running consecutively over one hour (5 minutes per engine).   
 
The engines run on diesel fuel, fuel is supplied from double skinned ‘belly tanks’ ( meaning they are located 
directly beneath the generators). The installation will generally store enough diesel to provide 72 hours’ 
worth of electricity to the site from the AVK generators and 48 hours from the CAT generators. The tanks are 
generally kept approximately 90% full, with the total fuel storage capacity approximately 432,500 litres.  
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide. The generators and associated fuel tanks are located on an area of hard 
standing. The site drainage system includes a soakaway system, there are petrol interceptors present to 
reduce the risk from spills. 
 
The status log of the permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number. 
 
Status log of the permit 
Description Date Comments 
Application 
EPR/TP3839QU/A001 
Duly made 
13/08/2021 
Application for a combustion facility consisting of 16 
diesel engines providing emergency power to an 
electronic datacentre. 
Additional information received. 18/08/2022 Updated non-technical summary, drainage plans, 
amended site and emission point plan, borehole logs 