 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 8 of 16 
as a result of a power outage in at least 5 years. Therefore, the potential for 
prolonged noise is also considered to be very low. 
An assessment of the potential impact of noise has been undertaken in the 
Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA). The document outlines that in addition to 
the limited hours of operation which will control potential for noise, acoustic 
silencers and a 6.5 metre high acoustic barrier providing sound dampening 
where generators are in close proximity to the site boundary. The ERA concludes 
that the risk of noise is low. We agree with this conclusion and that the proposed 
measures are sufficient to control any noise arising from the installation.  
Although no noise management plan has been requested to date, condition 3.4 
enables the Environment Agency to request one if considered necessary in the 
future.  
 
Permit Conditions  
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby 
operational limit’ for any or all the plant producing on-site power under the limits 
of the combustion activity. Therefore, emission limit values (to air) are not 
required within the permit. Emergency hours operation includes those unplanned 
hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical 
infrastructure. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the installation 
as a whole, meaning that as soon as one generator starts operating the hours 
count towards the 500 hours. 
 
In addition, the permit allows each individual generator unit to be tested for 
maintenance. The BAT expectation is that individual generator testing is below 
50 hours/annum. In this instance the operator proposes to limit testing to each 
set of generators being tested quarterly for one hour, this is in line with BAT and 
below the level at which ELVs would be needed. We expect the number of and 
duration of planned testing and generator operations to be minimised as much as 
possible. The planned testing operations of the generators shall be limited to the 
maximum testing hours outlined in the application documents and included by 
reference in the Operating Techniques Table S1.2 of the permit. 
 
The permit does not allow voluntary / elective power generation such as for 
demand side response (i.e. on-site use), grid short term operating reserve 
(STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) or Frequency Control by Demand 
Management (FCDM) for grid support or elective onsite use of electric power, 
when this can be supplied from the grid. This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market 
and importantly provide a clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to 
air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Operational and management procedures should reflect the outcomes of the air 
quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, phasing generators into 
subgroups, avoiding whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and 
most importantly times/days to avoid adding to “at risk” high ambient pollutant 
background levels. 