 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 3 of 16 
kept approximately 90% full, with the total fuel storage capacity approximately 
432,500 litres. 
 
The generators and associated fuel tanks are located on an area of hard 
standing. The tanks are double skinned and alarmed in the event of leak / 
overspill. All fill points are located over drip trays to capture spills. The site 
drainage system includes a soakaway system, there are petrol interceptors 
present to reduce the risk from spills. Spill kits are also available on site. 
 
The site is already operational, the drainage and containment infrastructure are 
therefore already in place and pre-date the permit application. We have set an 
improvement condition (IC4) which requires the operator to review the drainage 
and fuel containment measures currently in place at the site against the 
standards set out tin the Oil Storage Regulations for Businesses. As part of this 
improvement condition, they must identify any required improvements and 
provide an implementation timescale to be agreed by the Environment Agancy. 
 
The main emissions from the installation are to air in the form of nitrogen oxides, 
sulphur dioxide, particulate matter and carbon monoxide.  
 
Operating Scenarios 
The operational scenarios that have been considered for the installation are: 
Testing and maintenance – The generators are subject to a maintenance testing 
schedule with each set of generators being tested quarterly. All AVK Generators 
will run consecutively for one hour each quarter (12:00 to 13:00 on one 
Wednesday a quarter) and the CAT Generators would be operated during the 
same time period for the following Wednesday, running consecutively over one 
hour (5 minutes per engine). 
 
Emergency – Emergency operating scenario (72-hours of continuous run time) 
inclusive of the testing and maintenance run times 
 
Air Quality  
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-
emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-environmental-permit) and the relevant parts 
of the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/specified-generators-
dispersion-modelling-assessment ) the Applicant submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/air-emissions-risk-assessment-for-your-
environmental-permit. 
 