 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 9 of 16 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the actual 
reliability of the local electricity grid distribution allowing the Environment Agency 
to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to operate for prolonged 
periods in an emergency mode is low. The Applicant confirmed that the 
generators have not run for more than 30-minutes as a result of a power outage 
in at least 5 years. 
Reporting of standby generator maintenance run hours is required annually and 
any electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require 
both annual reporting and immediate notification of the Environment Agency.  
It is anticipated that the timescale of operation is likely to be short. They will only 
operate in this mode when the National Grid is off-line. The Applicant has put 
multiple measures in place to minimise the risk of National Grid supply failure 
including dual redundant power supplies. 
 
Best Available Techniques 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology 
for standby generators. Currently diesel generators are the preferred option for 
the supply of backup power for data centres and are a proven technology for 
providing reliable resilience of functionality which can be started from cold very 
quickly.  
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the 
impacts of emissions to air of NOx is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an 
equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3 at 5% reference oxygen 
and normal conditions. The Operator has confirmed that the AVK generators 
meet the 2g TA-Luft standard, but the CAT generators have emissions higher 
than this. These CAT generators were installed in two phases, the first four in 
2017 and the following five in 2018. We acknowledge the engines are being 
permitted retrospectively and that it would not be practicable to require the 
Applicant at this stage to upgrade existing plant to BAT standards. However, 
these generators will be considered as part of the requirement to reduce short 
term nitrogen dioxide levels (improvement condition IC3). 
 
The flues / exhaust stacks from the generators are at a height of 5.14 metres for 
the AVK generators and 9.6 metres for the CAT generators. They are existing 
generators so no stack height assessment done as part of the permit 
determination. 
 
The installation has incorporated redundancy to help ensure that power provision 
is not interrupted even in the event of a mains failure. the redundancy 
arrangement for both generator configurations is n+1. This is when the site is at 
full electrical load. This arrangement means that there is a generator spare 
should one fail to start. 
 
The main source of power at the installation is electricity, supplied via the 
National Grid. As with all buildings supplied with power via the national electricity 
grid, there is a risk that mains failure events (black outs) or fluctuations in quality 