 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 7 of 16 
We have set improvement condition (IC5) requiring the Applicant to submit a 
monitoring plan. This includes a proposal to install sampling ports to allow 
monitoring in line with the requirements of Table S3.1 of the permit. As the engines 
are all existing M CP and sized >5MWth the relevant compliance date for 
monitoring requirements is 01/01/2025. 
 
Monitoring requirements    
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed in 
the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular:  
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission 
points A1 to A16, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 hours of operation 
or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been included in 
the permit in order to comply with the requirements of Medium Combustion Plant 
Directive (MCPD), which speci fies the minimum requirements for monitoring of 
carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the 
plant.  
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from 
emission points A1 to A16, with the same frequency specified for the monitoring of 
carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied our 
regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in 
concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk 
associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.   
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and carbon 
monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web guide 
‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 
16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5).  
We have set an improvement condition (IC5) requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in the permit. For existing MCP with net rated thermal input of greater than 5MW, 
we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen at any time, but no 
later than the relevant compliance date (permit condition 3.5.2) unless otherwise 
agreed under Improvement Condition 4.  
 
Noise 
The site will only run the engines regularly as part of the testing regime described 
earlier. This occurs during daytime hours during weekdays for quarterly testing.  
Prolonged operation will only occur in an emergency situation where the National 
Grid supply is lost. The Applicant has provided details of historical outages at this 
installation, confirming that the generators have not run for more than 30-minutes 