 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 15 of 16 
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure that the installation is being 
operated in line with that specified in the operating techniques and to ensure that 
we are notified immediately in the instance that the site ever operates in 
emergency scenario mode. 
Management System 
We are not aware of any reason to consider that the operator will not have the 
management system to enable it to comply with the permit conditions. 
The decision was taken in accordance with the guidance on operator 
competence and how to develop a management system for environmental 
permits. 
Previous performance 
We have assessed operator competence. There is no known reason to consider 
the applicant will not comply with the permit conditions. 
Financial competence 
There is no known reason to consider that the operator will not be financially able 
to comply with the permit conditions. 
Growth duty 
We have considered our duty to have regard to the desirability of promoting 
economic growth set out in section 108(1) of the Deregulation Act 2015 and the 
guidance issued under section 110 of that Act in deciding whether to grant this 
permit.  
Paragraph 1.3 of the guidance says: 
“The primary role of regulators, in delivering regulation, is to achieve the 
regulatory outcomes for which they are responsible. For a number of regulators, 
these regulatory outcomes include an explicit reference to development or 
growth. The growth duty establishes economic growth as a factor that all 
specified regulators should have regard to, alongside the delivery of the 
protections set out in the relevant legislation.” 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 