 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 10 of 16 
of mains power outside of acceptable limits (brown outs), will occur during the 
operational lifetime of the building. In the event of grid failure, power is initially 
provided by the site’s Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) System (arrangement 
of batteries) until the sites generators start up and take the site electrical load. 
These start from ‘cold’ to take on the load from the UPS (typically within 15 – 30 
seconds). The backup generators provide ongoing power until a stable mains 
electrical supply is restored. 
The generators and batteries will be used solely for the purpose for generating 
power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the installation.  
We are satisfied that the installation meets BAT relevant to the permitted 
operation.  
 
 
Site Drainage and groundwater 
In our review we noted that part of the wider Data Centre site is located upon a 
Principal Aquifer within the Lynch Hill Gravel Member formation. However, this 
aquifer does not underlie areas of the site used for combustion activities or 
associated fuel storage (the area covered by the installation boundary).  
The following measures are proposed to prevent soil and groundwater 
contamination:   
• There are petrol interceptors present to reduce the risk from spills entering 
the site drainage system. 
• The site is covered in hardstanding, therefore reducing the likelihood of 
any potential route to ground for spilt fuel.  
• Generator belly tanks are double skinned and alarmed in the event of leak 
/ overspill.  
• Fill points are located over drip trays to capture any spills. 
• Fuel tanks are located behind walls to protect them from being struck by 
vehicles moving within the site. 
 
Condition 3.1.2 of the environmental permit requires periodic monitoring at least 
once every 5 years for groundwater and 10 years for soil, unless such monitoring 
is based on a systematic appraisal of the risk of contamination. 
 
The data centre is already operational, the drainage and containment 
infrastructure are therefore already in place and pre-date the permit application. 
We have set an improvement condition (IC4) which requires the operator to 
review the drainage and fuel containment measures currently in place at the site 
against the standards set out tin the Oil Storage Regulations. As part of this 
improvement condition, they must identify any required improvements and 
provide an implementation timescale to be agreed by the Environment Agency. 
  