 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 5 of 16 
• The process contributions (PC) of particulates (PM10) are less than 1% of 
the long-term air quality standard (AQS) at all modelled sensitive receptors 
and are therefore insignificant. 
• Predicted 90.41%ile 24-hour mean PM10 concentrations were not 
considered for Scenario 1. This is because the site will be operating for a 
maximum 13 non-consecutive hours of the year and as such, it is 
extremely unlikely that the 24-hour AQS for PM10 (50μg/m3) will be 
exceeded on 35 days. 
• Predicted 8-hour rolling mean CO concentrations were not considered for 
Scenario 1. This is because the site will be operating for a maximum 13-
hours of the year and the generators will never be operating for 
consecutive hours during this scenario. As such, it is extremely unlikely 
that the 8-hour rolling mean AQS for CO will be exceeded as this based 
on a rolling average. 
• The long-term PC/PEC of NO2 are not significant at all the human 
receptors.  
• The Applicant didn’t model for short term NO2 as the site will be operating 
for a maximum of 13 non-consecutive hours of the year and as such, it is 
extremely unlikely that the 99.79%ile 1-hour AQS for NO2 (200μg/m3) will 
be exceeded more than 18 times a year. 
However, our checks indicated that NO2 peaks exceed the short-term 
environmental standard at a number of receptors locations in proximity of 
the installation. Therefore, we requested that the applicant undertake 
further assessment to assess the magnitude of the potential exceedances 
against acute exposure risk criteria. The US EPA Acute Exposure 
Guidelines (AEGL) were used for this part of the assessment.  
Two additional modelling exercises were carried out. The second was 
based on actual monitoring data. Predicted NO2 concentrations were 
above the relevant AEGL-1 at 10 of the 30 sensitive receptor locations 
over the modelled 5 year period for the 10 minute, 30 minute and 1 hour 
periods. The AEGL-1 was not exceeded at any location over the 4 and 8-
hour period. Although there are still exceedances, the peaks have reduced 
significantly when compared to the previous model due to changes in the 
testing operating envelope and more realistic modelling input parameters 
based on actual monitoring data. Prior to these changes the AEGL-1 was 
exceeded at 16 of the 30 sensitive rector locations and the peaks were 
much higher in some locations. We have set improvement condition (IC3) 
to require the Operator to reduce NOx emissions further by reviewing the 
testing regime and assessing other opportunities to reduce emissions. The 
additional measures specified under IC3 are also expected to achieve a 
reduction of NO emissions which are currently showing an exceedance of 
the environmental standard at 5 sensitive receptors. 
 
 
 