 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 6 of 16 
Emergency (scenario 2) 
An assumed 72-hour case scenario has been modelled which we consider a 
conservative scenario, given the information provided by the Applicant on the 
reliability of the connection of the installation to the electric grid.   
For this scenario we found that there is the potential for exceedance at sensitive 
human health receptor locations of the NO2 short-term environmental standards, 
NO2 AEGL-1, and NO environmental standards. 
The short-term NOx process contributions for the emergency operations of the 
site are above the insignificance threshold set in our guidance, however the 
structural preventative measures taken to avoid the occurrence of this 
emergency scenario make the source/pathway/receptor mechanism very 
unlikely. For the installation, we consider that the reasonably likely 
source/pathway/receptor mechanism would consist of periodic testing operations 
of the diesel generators. 
The Applicant has confirmed that the generators have not run for more than 30-
minutes as a result of a power outage in at least 5 years. Provided power 
outages continue to be unlikely the risk of an air quality exceedance form 
emergency operation is low. Also, in the event of an outage, all of the generators 
would operate and then they would “load shed” until the appropriate number of 
generators were operating to support the IT load of the building. So it is unlikely 
all generators would remain operational for a prolonged period of time. 
 
Air quality improvement conditions 
We have specified that the operator shall have a written action Air Quality 
Management Plan (AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency running 
of the plant and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours, as far 
as possible. This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The 
operator is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop this plan to ensure 
local factors are fully considered. This AQMP is included in the permit through 
improvement condition 1 (IC1). 
We have set improvement condition  2 (IC2) requiring the operator to detail 
proposals and subsequently undertake a monitoring programme to verify the 
predicted short -term nitrogen oxides (NOx) and dust concentrations at the 
boundary of the site or off-site locations of sensitive receptors as appropriate. 
Improvement condition 3 (IC3) requires the operator to submit a report detailing 
the results and conclusions of the emissions monitoring undertaken as part of IC2. 
This will contribute to the validation of conclusions reached in the air quality 
assessment and inform the air quality management plan. IC3 also requires the 
operator to review the options for reducing the predicted emission impacts. T he 
reduction measures are expected to achieve a reduction of impacts during both 
the maintenance/testing and emergency operations.  In setting IC2 and IC3  we 
have considered the level of the NOx peaks predicted by the Applicant’s modelling. 
 