 
LIT 11984                                                     Page 12 of 16 
‘Defining the scope of the installation’ and Appendix 1 of RGN2 ‘Interpretation of 
Schedule 1’. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The activities 
are defined in table S1.1 of the permit. 
The site 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider to be satisfactory. 
These show the extent of the site of the facility. 
The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance 
on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the Industrial Emissions 
Directive. 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the 
screening distances we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations. The 
application is within our screening distances for these designations.  
The application is within relevant screening distance from the following statutorily 
protected conservation sites: 
- South West London Waterbodies Special Protection Area (SPA) and 
Ramsar (approximate distance from the site: 5.8 km) 
 
The Applicant also included a number of SSSIs within their risk assessment, 
however none of these sites are within 2km of the installation. We have therefore 
screened out potential impacts due to distance and they have not been 
considered further.  
There are 13 Local Wildlife Sites (LWSs) within 2km of the installation.  
The Applicant’s modelling predicts possible exceedances of the short-term ES for 
NOx (24 -hour mean) at two LWSs during Scenario 2 (emergency operation). 
However, the modelling is based on a worst-case and we consider that scenario 2 
is unlikely to occur. The Applicant confirms that the generators have not run for 