 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 8 of 17 
5% oxygen and reference conditions. 
 
The generators proposed for this installation and included in the Air Quality 
assessment are Tier 2 certified and have NOx emission concentrations of 1938 
mg/Nm3 at 5% O2 and reference conditions (100% load standby mode – nominal  
emissions) and therefore are in line with BAT. Furthermore, so as to minimise the 
potential impact of NOx emissions at nearby sensitive receptors, the generators 
will be fitted with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) emissions abatement with 
a minimum NOx emission reduction of 95% (<86mg/Nm3 at 5% O2). 
 
Fuel Storage 
Each engine has its own dedicated above ground carbon steel fuel belly tank 
(30,868 litre capacity) which are integrally bunded to a capacity of 110% of the 
tank capacity. The tanks are fitted with leak detection alarms, such that if any fuel 
is released into the secondary containment and audible alarm will sound. The 
tanks will be visually checked daily for corrosion, together with 3rd party checks 
undertaken as part of routine maintenance of the generators. In addition a 5 
yearly empty tank inspection will be undertaken. The Applicant confirmed that all 
tanks will comply with the Oil Storage Regulations (SI 2001/2954. The Control of 
Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001). 
Fuel Delivery 
We are satisfied that the necessary controls will be in place to minimise the risk 
of pollution. Refuelling is expected to only occur twice a year. The fuel tanker will 
be parked on an area of impermeable slab that slopes towards drains which are 
connected to an oil separator. The integrity of the impermeable slab will be 
visually checked daily.  The oil separator has been sized to accommodate one 
compartment of a fuel tanker i.e. capable of retaining the full loss of contents of 
one road tanker.  Delivery & filling activities will be supervised by trained staff. 
Other pollution controls include permanent kerbing around the perimeter of the 
service yard, covering all drains within a 20-meter radius of delivery and filling 
activities; the oil separators have automatic closure devices that activate when oil 
is detected; localised spill kits; drip trays at fill point and high-level alarms on 
tanks.  
Choice of Fuel 
The applicant confirmed that the emergency generators will be operated on gas 
oil. We have specified in the permit that gas oil can have a maximum sulphur 
content of 0.001% (w/w). 