 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 10 of 17 
monoxide and NOx, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with 
web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
Published 16 February 2021 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
9. Emissions to Sewer 
There will be no emissions to sewer from the proposed installation. 
10. Emissions to Water 
There will be no emissions to surface water from the proposed installation. 
11. Emissions to Land 
There will be emissions of uncontaminated site surface water via oil interceptors 
to a soakaway at emission points S1 and S2. We have required visual checks for 
oil and grease via a weekly spot sample. 
12. Waste 
The facility will not generate significant quantities of waste. Each main engine 
lubricating oil is changed at 500 run hours or 3 yearly intervals, whichever is 
shorter. Any waste oil generated during testing/maintenance will be removed 
from site by an appointed third-party contractor and managed by a suitably 
regulated waste management contractor. 
Based upon the information in the application, we are satisfied that the 
appropriate measures will be in place to prevent or where that is not practicable 
to minimise pollution from waste.  
13. Operational hours 
We set operational hour limits for data centres at 500 hours as they are permitted 
for emergency use only. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours is for the 
installation as a whole i.e. as soon as one generator starts operating the hours 
count towards the 500 hours.  
The operational hours on the site will be monitored and reported as follows:  
Emergency operation limited to 500 hours for the installation via permit condition 
2.3.6.  
Maintenance and testing regime limited to <50 hours per generator, linked to 
operating techniques table S1.2 
 
14. Permit Conditions 
 
Permit condition 2.3.6 
The permit includes a maximum 500-hour operational limit for the emergency 
standby generators. The 500 hours includes testing and maintenance. 
 
 