 
Permit number  
EPR/UP3624SW  2 
London 14 Data Centre  
Permit number EPR/UP3624SW 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice. 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The permit authorises the operation of standby electricity generating plant at a data centre located within a 
light industrial and commercial area in Hayes in the London Borough of Hillingdon  at national grid reference 
TQ 08045 79594. The data centre will under normal operating conditions be powered by grid supplied 
electricity. 
 
The installation falls under the following Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) Schedule 1 listed 
activity description: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a) - Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts.  
 
The installation comprises 16 stand-by backup generators to provide electrical power to the data centre in 
the event of a failure of power supply from the national grid. The standby generators are 6.9 MWth new 
medium combustion plant (MCP) diesel generators with an aggregated thermal input of 110 MWth.  
 
The plant is limited to operating less than 500 hours/year, including the testing regime. It is estimated that 
each engine will be tested for approximately 5 hours/year. It is essential that the standby system is routinely 
tested to ensure the engines function correctly in the event of them being required to operate  in an 
emergency. 
 
Each engine will be tested  one at a time  at low load (up to 10% for up to 15 minutes) once a month for 1 1 
months per year; then each engine will be tested individually at full load once per year for 20 minutes followed 
by 75% load for 120 minutes.  Each engine has its own integrally bunded fuel storage tank . Exhaust gases 
from each engine will be discharged through an individual 14.45m flue. Each of the generators are fitted with 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) abatement to reduce emissions to air of oxi des of nitrogen (NOx). 
 
There will be no process effluent discharged from the installation. Uncontaminated surface water run -off from 
the roof and hard -standing will drain via oil -water separators to the surface water drainage system before 
discharging to ground via a soakaway.  
 
Southwest London Waterbodies Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar site is located within 10km of the 
installation and there are a number of Local Wildlife Sites (LWS) with in 2km of the installation. The closest 
residential properties are located approximately 30m from the data centre boundary. 
There will be an Environmental Management System (EMS) in place based on the ISO 14001 standard.  
The status log of a permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number.   
Status log of the permit 
Description Date Comments 
Application 
EPR/UP3624SW/A001 
Duly made 
04/07/2024 
Application to operate 16 standby diesel 
fuelled generators in the event of National 
Grid failure and for testing and maintenance 
activities. 