 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 3 of 17 
Annually 
Every year each generator will be tested for 20 minutes at 100% load followed by 
75% load for 120 minutes . Again, generators would be tested separately to  
minimise the short-term impact on local air quality.  
Operation During an Emergency Event 
The generators would also run in the event of a loss of power supply, i.e. 
temporary grid blackout; the generators will be utilised to maintain the required 
power supply. The generators are designed to automatically activate and provide 
the required power to the plant pending restoration of mains power, at which time 
they shall automatically ramp down and switch back to utility supply.  
 
The installation will initially be fed electricity directly from Virtus’ existing Stockley 
Park Campus, housing London 5-8, via three separate circuits to provide 
resilience. The incoming power system to the site will consist of three substations 
on-site, three separate cables from National Grid’s Iver Heath substation, and 
three electrical feeder breakers at Iver. Two new sub-stations are proposed to be 
constructed at London 14 which will be connected to Iver Heath, after which point 
the London 5-8 connection will be replaced. The proposed electrical design at 
London 14 mirrors that in other Virtus datacentres, whereby the system is set up 
in a ring main unit/circuit, such that if the site was to lose one board, the power 
can be supplied from the other side of the circuit. 
 
The application states that National Grid National Electrical Transmission System 
Performance Report 2021/22 states that the overall reliability of supply during 
2021-22 was: 99.999612%. The longest loss of supply incident lasted 300 mins 
(7.5 hours) in Elstree, Watford, with a total of 25.7 MWh not supplied. It is also 
reported that a portion of demand was restored within 3 minutes. Therefore, it is 
considered very unlikely that the generators would run for extended periods 
during a blackout event.  
 
The Applicant has conservatively assessed the impact on air quality based on all 
16 generators operating at 100% load for up to 72 hours to cover an emergency 
power outage scenario. This is in line with Environment Agency guidance.   
3. Air Quality Assessment 
 
The Applicant’s assessment of the impact of air quality is set out in Air Impact 
Assessment Rev C dated 27th September 2024 of the Application. The assessment 
comprises: 
• Dispersion modelling of emissions to air from the operation of the 
installation. 
• A study of the impact of emissions on nearby sensitive conservation sites. 