 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 9 of 17 
 
6. Site Condition Report and Protection of Groundwater 
A site condition report (SCR) is required for any facility regulated under the EPR, 
where there may be a significant risk to land or groundwater. Article 22(2) of the 
IED requires the applicant to provide a baseline report containing at least the 
information set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of the Article before starting 
operation. The baseline report is an important reference document in the 
assessment of contamination that might arise during the operational lifetime of 
the installation and at cessation of activities at the installation. 
At the definitive cessation of activities, the operator has to satisfy us that the 
necessary measures have been taken so that the site ceases to pose a risk to 
soil or groundwater, taking into account both the baseline conditions and the 
site’s current or approved future use. To do this, the operator has to apply to us 
for surrender, which we will not grant unless and until we are satisfied that these 
requirements have been met. 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance 
on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the IED. 
7. Emission Limits 
Based on the operational requirements, we have not set any emission limits.  
As there are no limits, permit condition 2.3.6 ‘The activities shall not operate for 
more than 500 hours per year’ has been included to restrict the hours of 
operation. The operator will be required to record operating hours and the 
number of runs for each of the generators.  
8. Monitoring Requirements 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide (CO) from 
emission points A1 to A16, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 hours 
of operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has 
been included in the permit in order to comply with the requirements of the 
MCPD, which specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon 
monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) from 
emission points A1 to A16, with the same frequency specified for the monitoring 
of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied 
our regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in 
concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk 
associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the generators operating at 
the installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for carbon 