 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 4 of 17 
 
The air dispersion modelling carried out by the applicant used the ADMS 6 
software which we consider an appropriate air quality modelling tool for 
regulatory purposes. The model used 5 years meteorological data (2018-2022) 
from the Heathrow airport meteorological station and included the potential 
effects of buildings in the modelling domain on the dispersion of the emitted 
pollutants. The assessment carried out by the Applicant also included a 
sensitivity analysis of the modelling set up and a statistical interpretation of short-
term exceedances of air quality standards. The statistical analysis was based on 
the hypergeometric probability distribution and followed the methodology set out 
in our web guidance on dispersion modelling assessment for generators. The 3 
operating scenarios detailed above were modelled. 
Each generator has its own 14.45m exhaust stack.  
Generator operating parameters and emission concentrations are based on the 
generator manufacturer’s performance and emission data.  
Each generator is fitted with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) NOx abatement. 
It has been estimated by the Applicant that it will take 20 minutes for the SCR to 
warm-up before becoming effective. Once the SCR is effective, it is proposed that 
the NOX emissions from the generators will be reduced by 95%. The use of SCR 
will therefore only be applicable to the annual testing scenario and the emergency 
scenario, as the running period of monthly testing scenario 1 is only 15 minutes, 
which is shorter than the required warm-up period. 
The way in which the Applicant used dispersion models, its selection of input data, 
use of background data and the assumptions it made have been reviewed by the 
Environment Agency to establish the robustness of the Applicant’s air impact 
assessment. The output from the model has then been used to inform further 
assessment of health impacts and impact on habitats and conservation sites. 
Our review of the Applicant’s assessment leads us to agree with the Applicant’s 
conclusions. 
The Applicant’s modelling predictions are summarised in the following sections. 
Air Quality Impacts (human health) 
Predicted impacts Testing Scenario 1 – monthly testing (generators are tested 
consecutively for 15min each at 10% load, unabated. 11 months of the year): 
The predicted pollutant concentrations for scenario 1, representing monthly 
standby generator testing, were below the relevant short-term environmental 
standards (ES) at all receptor locations and are not considered to be significant. 
 
Predicted impacts for Testing Scenario 2 - annual testing (generators are tested 
consecutively for 2 hours and 20 min each at 75% load, abated after 20min warm-