 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 5 of 17 
up time. This is an annual test in the 12th month of the year): 
The predicted pollutant concentrations for Scenario 2, representing annual standby 
generator testing, were below the relevant short-term ESs at all receptor locations 
with the exception of short -term NO 2 at one receptor located 30m east of the 
facility. The maximum short-term NO2 process contribution at this receptor is 
predicted to be 124% of the ES and the predicted environmental concentration is 
161% of the relevant ES.  However, statistical analysis using the hypergeometric 
distribution was undertaken, which found that the probability of exceeding the NO2 
hourly mean Environmental Assessment Level (EAL) was <1% indicating the 
probability of an exceedance would be highly unlikely according to Environment 
Agency guidance. 
Predicted impacts emergency scenario 3 – in the event of power grid outage (all 
generators running simultaneously for 72 hours at 100% load, abated): 
The Applicant predicted no exceedances of any of the relevant ES and US Acute 
Exposure Guideline Levels ( AEGL), with the exception of the short-term NO2 ES 
at one receptor located 30m east of the facility . The maximum short-term NO2 
process contribution at this receptor  is predicted to be 113% of the ES  and the 
predicted environmental concentration is 150% of the relevant ES.  The Applicant 
undertook statistical analysis using the hypergeometric distribution, which found 
that the probability of exceeding the NO2 hourly mean Environmental Assessment 
Level (EAL) was <1% indicating the probability of an exceedance would be highly 
unlikely according to Environment Agency guidance.  The Emergency Scenario 
was also compared against the  AEGL for NO 2, where no exceedances were 
predicted. Additionally, the risk of the emergency scenario occurring is very 
unlikely based on electrical grid reliability for the area and inbuilt design resilience. 
Air Quality Impacts (Habitats) 
We identified the following European sites within the 10 km screening distance of 
the facility: 
• The South West London Waterbodies S pecial Protection Area (SPA)  & 
Ramsar. 
 
The following non-statutory local wildlife and conservation sites are located within 
2 Km of the installation: 
Local Wildlife Sites (LWS): 
• Carp Ponds and Broads Dock 
• Stockley Road Rough 
• London’s Canals  
• Stockley Business Park Lakes & Meadows 
• Iron Bridge Road Railsides (The Piggeries) 1 & 2 
• Bolingbroke Way Sunken Pasture 