 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 7 of 17 
Critical levels and loads are set to protect the most vulnerable habitat types. 
Thresholds change in accordance with the levels of protection afforded by the 
legislation. Therefore, the thresholds for SAC SPA and SSSI features are more 
stringent than those for other nature conservation sites. 
 
Therefore, we would generally conclude that the Installation is not causing 
significant pollution at these other sites if the PC is less than the relevant critical 
level or critical load, provided that the Operator is using BAT to control emissions.  
 
The Operator’s assessment shows that the PCs at the non-statutory local wildlife 
and conservation sites  listed above will be below the relevant critical levels or 
loads. We are therefore satisfied that the Installation will not cause significant 
pollution at the sites. The Operator is required to prevent, minimise and control 
emissions using BAT, this is considered further in Section 5. 
 
4. Noise and Vibration 
The Application contained a noise impact assessment (NIA) which identified local 
noise-sensitive receptors, potential sources of noise at the proposed plant and 
noise attenuation measures. Measurements were taken of the prevailing ambient 
noise levels to produce a baseline noise survey and an assessment was carr ied 
out in accordance with BS4142:2014 to compare the predicted generator plant 
rating noise levels with the established background levels.  
 
We have reviewed the Applicant’s NIA and our review concluded that the noise 
impact from the installation is likely to be low and therefore we are satisfied that 
noise impact on nearby sensitive receptors will not be significant. 
5. Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
Technology and Fuel 
The Applicant considered a range of technologies and fuels as part of the design 
and specification phase. At this time the latest generation of gas oil powered 
generators are optimally viable for operators based on availability, reliability, 
capital and operating costs. Alternatives, including natural gas engines, HVO 
engines, hydrogen engines, gas turbines and battery storage were considered 
but are not operationally viable for this installation.  
 
We accept that gas oil  powered generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators in data centres. We are satisfied that the 
applicant has provided sufficient justification to show that their proposal is BAT. 
 
Engine Specification 
 
Environment Agency guidance specifies the BAT emissions specifications for 
new diesel-fired reciprocating engines as 2g TA-Luft or US EPA Tier II (or 
equivalent standard) with NOx emission levels in the range of 2000 mg/m3 at  