 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 6 of 17 
• Lake Farm Country Park 
• Wall Garden Sand Heaps 
• Cranford Countryside Park and Open Space 
• Cranford Lane Gravel Workings 1 & 2 
• Stockley Park Country Park 
 
We have assessed the impact from the proposed Installation on the Habitat sites 
that are within the relevant screening distance. As required under the Habitats 
Regulations we have completed a Habitats Regulation Assessment (HRA). This 
is a two stage process.  The Stage 1 HRA is where it is identified whether 
process contribution (PC) will have a likely significant effect on the integrity of the 
habitat site.  For any habitat site where we are unable to conclude that there will 
be no likely significant effect on the integrity of the site a detailed ‘appropriate 
assessment’ of the impacts is carried out under the Stage 2 HRA to determine if 
the impacts will have an adverse effect on the habitat site.   
The Applicant’s assessment shows that for all 3 scenarios the process 
contributions of NOx, NH3 nitrogen deposition and acid deposition at the South 
West London Waterbodies Special Protection Area (SPA) & Ramsar when 
compared to the relevant critical levels and loads are likely to be insignificant. We 
have therefore concluded no likely significant on the integrity of the habitat site. 
We have completed a stage 1 HRA detailing our assessment and this was sent 
to Natural England for information only.  
Assessment of other conservation sites 
 
Conservation sites are protected in law by legislation. The Habitats Directive 
provides the highest level of protection for SACs and SPAs and domestic 
legislation provides a lower but important level of protection for SSSIs. Finally the 
Environment Act provides more generalised protection for flora and fauna rather 
than for specifically named conservation designations. It is under the 
Environment Act that we assess other sites (such as local wildlife sites) which 
prevents us from permitting something that will result in significant pollution; and 
which offers levels of protection proportionate with other European and national 
legislation. However, it should not be assumed that because levels of protection 
are less stringent for these other sites that they are not of considerable 
importance. Local sites link and support EU and national nature conservation 
sites together and hence help to maintain the UK’s biodiversity resilience. 
For SACs SPAs, Ramsar and SSSIs we consider the PC and the background 
levels in making an assessment of impact. In assessing these other sites under 
the Environment Act we look at the impact from the Installation alone in order to 
determine whether it would cause significant pollution. This is a proportionate 
approach, in line with the levels of protection offered by the conservation 
legislation to protect these other sites (which are generally more numerous than 
Natura 2000 or SSSIs) whilst ensuring that we do not restrict development.  
 