 
London 14 Data Centre EPR/UP3624SW                     Page 11 of 17 
Table S1.1 (Activities) 
Includes some additional operational controls: 
• Testing of the generators shall only take place during daytime periods. 
• During monthly and annual testing, each generator shall be tested 
separately. 
• Electricity produced at the installation cannot be exported to the National 
Grid. 
 
The first bullet is to minimise the impact from noise, refer to the Noise and Vibration 
section of this document. 
The second two bullets are based on the outcome of the Air Quality Assessment, 
refer to Air Quality Impacts section of this document. 
Table S1.1 also places a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power 
generation’ such as Balancing Services, Demand Side Response operations 
including Frequency Control Demand Management (FCDM) or Triad Avoidance . 
This is primarily to differentiate data centres from ‘diesel  (gas oil)  arrays’ that 
voluntarily operate within the balancing market , and importantly a clear way to 
demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
 
Table S1.2 (Operating techniques) 
The testing and maintenance scenarios are detailed in this document and 
controlled though permitted operating techniques in table S1.2 of the permit.  
 
Table S1.3 (Improvement programme) 
IC1 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
Whilst we are satisfied that the maintenance and testing regime is appropriate, 
given the local issues regarding air quality, including the designation of the 
AQMA, we have included an improvement condition in the permit. This requires 
the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan.  
IC2 - Performance of SCR systems 
This condition has been included to ensure that the proposed SCR systems are 
fit for purpose and as described in the application. 
Table S4.2 (Performance parameters) 
Reporting of testing and maintenance  run hours is required annually . Operation 
during an emergency scenario requires both notification  within 24 hours  and 
annual reporting. 
  