EPR/VP3235DJ/A001 
Date issued: 27/01/2020 
 2 
The standby generators are designed and configured so that in the event of a mains failure all the generators 
will fire up then subsequently ramp down to meet the load demand at the site. All the generators are subject 
to a testing schedule which is as follows:  
 
 Scenario 1 - Weekly testing  
Each week a different group of 4 generators is tested. This includes running the generators 
simultaneously to an off -load power (up to 3 0% maximum continuous rating (MCR)) for 10 minutes. 
Once a quarter the 4 generators selected for testing are run simultaneously for 15 minutes at up to 
80% MCR.  
 Scenario 2 - Annual service testing  
Annually a full service test is undertaken where once a year one standby diesel generator is started, 
loaded using a load bank (up to 100% maximum continuous rating (MCR)) . This scenario is usually 
undertaken over a two-hour period. Only one generator is tested per day. 
 Scenario 3 - Grid Outage Event 
Standby operation of the generators will only occur in the event of a power failure. A Grid Outage 
Event of up to five days loss of grid power at a frequency of once per five years has been assumed 
as a worst case event. The applicant has confirmed that in the past 10 years the maximum number 
of hours that the generators have been required to run has been 4 hours. 
Air Quality 
The primary pollutant of concern to air quality is nitrogen dioxide (NO2) resulting from the combustion process 
on site. The Applicant has submitted an air dispersion modelling report which assesses the potential impact of 
emission of NO2 from the generators on local air quality.  
The data centre is not situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and there are no AQMAs within 
2km of the site.  
We have  audited the air dispersion modelling and report submitted with the permit application. Both the 
maintenance testing and emergency scenarios within the modelling were assessed.  
 
Data inputs and assumptions for the submitted modelling 
The modelling was based on the incorrect NOX emission rates for the generators associated with buildings 
A101 and A102. They used a value of 0.656 g/s, which is inconsistent with the generator data sheets in the 
latest air quality submission. We have conducted sensitivity analysis to 1.689 g/s from these generators.  
The emissions from the sixty nine generators were consolidated into four point sources, one for each of the 
four buildings A101, A102, A103 and A104. This method led to inaccurate predictions for ground level 
concentrations close to the site. 
The nitrogen monoxide (NO) Environmental Assessment Levels were not considered. They had however 
assessed against the United States Environmental Protection Agency Acute Exposure Guideline Levels 
(AEGLs). We considered NO and NO2 impacts in our checks.  
The eastern side of the Cody Sports and Social Club grounds, which is close to the data centre and where 
predicted NOX levels are higher were not considered. We considered all locations where human health public 
exposure is likely in our checks.  
A NOX to NO2 conversion ratio of 15% was assumed, referencing our generic diesel generators short term 
NO2 risk assessment report. This is likely to be appropriate for public exposure within 500 m.  
ADMS v.5 was used with meteorological data from the nearby Farnborough Airport for the years 20 11 - 2015 
and a dispersion site surface roughness length of 0.5 m. We tested sensitivity to lower values.  
The effects of adjacent buildings were taken into account. 
Maintenance testing 
For ‘event 1 - weekly testing’ we have concluded that there is unlikely to be any exceedance of EAL at human 
health receptors or habitats sites. 
For the ‘event 2 - service test scenario’, which is a two hour test of each generator individually on separate 
days, we found that:  