EPR/VP3235DJ/A001 
Date issued: 27/01/2020 
 3 
 There is unlikely to be exceedances of the environmental standards at sensitive human health 
receptor locations.  
 There is unlikely to be an exceedance of the NO2 AEGL-1 outside the site boundary.  
 Impacts at protected conservation areas are unlikely to be significant.  
 
Emergency scenario 
An assumed 5 day worst case scenario for full loss of power has been modelled which is a worst case 
scenario.  
For ‘Event 3 - grid outage scenario’ we found that there is the potential for exceedance of:  
 The NO2 and NO environmental standards at sensitive human health receptor locations.  
 The NO2 AEGL-1 outside the site boundary.  
 The daily NOX critical level at a number of nearby protected conservations areas.  
The highest risk locations where there is potential public exposure are west of building A104, in particular the 
playing fields area of the Cody Sports and Social Club grounds. Provided power outages continue to be 
unlikely the risk of an air quality exceedance is low. According to the applicant, in the last 10 years 
generators have only been run for a maximum of 4 hours.  
The EA has specified that the operator shall  have a written action  Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP)  to 
manage the issue for prolonged emergency running of the plant. This needs to be proportionate to the level of 
risk at the receptors. The operator is expected to work with the local authority to develop this plan to ensure 
local factors are fully considered. This AQMP is included in the permit through improvement condition IC1.  
Permit conditions 
The permit  will include a maximum 500 hour ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for any or all the plant 
producing on-site power under the limits of the combustion activity; and thereby emission limit values ELVs to 
air (and thus engine emissions monitoring) are not required within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation 
includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure 
associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way for up to 500 hours per 
calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring under IED/MCPD. Though clearly the EA expects 
planned testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations as far as 
practicable. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) req uires both immediate notification of the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
Noise 
The primary noise sources on site are the generators, chillers, fans and transformers. The generators are 
located within acoustic containers to reduce sound emissions. The generators have dual flues for noise 
attenuation purposes.   
We are not aware of any previous noise complaints relating to the site. 
The Applicant submitted a noise assessment with the application in line with BS4142. As Cody Park was not 
fully built, the predicted operational noise levels were based on another data centre which is built in the same 
layout. Noise levels predicted at the closes sensitive receptors were 4-11 dB lower than the background levels. 
In line with BS4142 this indicates that the installation is unlikely to have an adverse impact on nearby receptors. 
Although no noise management plan has been requested to date, condition 3.4 enables the Environment 
Agency to request one if considered necessary in the future.  
BAT 
We accept that oil fired diesel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators 
in data centres. However we requested a BAT assessment detailing the choice of engine, the particular 
configuration and plant sizing meeting the standby arrangement. 
 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 2000mg/m3. The 