EPR/VP3235DJ/A001 
Date issued: 27/01/2020 
 1 
 
Permitting decisions  
Bespoke permit 
We have decided to grant the permit for Cody Park Data Centre operated by Ark Data Centres Limited. 
The permit number is EPR/VP3235DJ. 
We consider in reaching that decision we have taken into account all relevant considerations and legal 
requirements and that the permit will ensure that the appropriate level of environmental protection is 
provided. 
Purpose of this document 
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It summarises the decision 
making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors have been taken in to account.  
This decision document provides a record of the decision making process. It: 
• highlights key issues in the determination 
• summarises the decision making process in the decision checklist to show how all relevant factors 
have been taken into account 
• shows how we have considered the consultation responses. 
Unless the decision document specifies otherwise we have accepted the applicant’s proposals.  
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit . The introductory note 
summarises what the permit covers. 
Key issues of the decision 
Description of the installation 
The combustion plant comprises 69 diesel fuelled standby generators. 36 of the generators have a thermal 
input of 2.71MWth, 24 generators at 5.38MWth and 9 generators at 3.66MWth each. The aggregated total 
combustion capacity on site is approximately 260MWth. At the time of permitting 53 of the 69 generators had 
been installed but the supporting information including the air quality risk assessment within the application 
considered the total proposed capacity of 69 generators. 
Electrical power is provided to the data centre from the National Grid. However, in the event of a failure in 
the electrical supply, the operator will utilise the generators to maintain the electrical supply. The generators 
will be used solely for the purpose for generating power for the facility. No electricity will be exported from the 
installation. The generators have either individual exhaust or dual flues which range between 4.93m and 
5.65m in height above ground level. 
The diesel fuel is stored in individual double skinned tanks below the generators. The tanks vary in size from 
19,000 litres up to 41,700 litres. They are bunded and fitted with leak detection alarms. The site is covered in 
hardstanding and surface water drains into an oil interceptor prior to discharge from site. Surface water run 
off from the concrete refuelling bays is discharged to foul sewer. 
