 
Permit number 
EPR/VP3235DJ 19 
Schedule 6 – Interpretation 
“accident” means an accident that may result in pollution. 
“application” means the application for this permit, together with any additional information supplied by the 
operator as part of the application and any response to a notice served under Schedule 5 to the EP 
Regulations. 
“authorised officer” means any person authorised by the Environment Agency under section 108(1) of The 
Environment Act 1995 to exercise, in accordance with the terms of any such authorisation, any power 
specified in section 108(4) of that Act. 
“EP Regulations” means The Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations SI 2016 No.1154 
and words and expressions used in this permit which are also used in the Regulations have the same 
meanings as in those Regulations. 
“emissions of substances not controlled by emission limits” means emissions of substances to air, water or 
land from the activities, either from the emission points specified in schedule 3 or from other localised or 
diffuse sources, which are not controlled by an emission limit. 
“groundwater” means all water, which is below the surface of the ground in the saturation zone and in direct 
contact with the ground or subsoil. 
“Industrial Emissions Directive” means DIRECTIVE 2010/75/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND 
OF THE COUNCIL of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions 
“List of Wastes” means the list of wastes established by Commission Decision 2000/532/EC replacing 
Decision 94/3/EC establishing a list of wastes pursuant to Article 1(a) of Council Directive 75/442/EEC on 
waste and Council Decision 94/904/EC establishing a list of hazardous waste pursuant to Article 1(4) of 
Council Directive 91/689/EEC on hazardous waste, as amended from time to time. 
“MCERTS” means the Environment Agency’s Monitoring Certification Scheme.  
“Natural gas” means naturally occurring methane with no more than 20% by volume of inert or other 
constituents. 
“shut down” is any period where the plant is being returned to a non-operational state. 
“start up” is any period, where the plant has been non-operational, until fuel has been fed to the plant to 
initiate steady-state conditions. 
Where a minimum limit is set for any emission parameter, for example pH, reference to exceeding the limit 
shall mean that the parameter shall not be less than that limit. 
Unless otherwise stated, any references in this permit to concentrations of substances in emissions into air 
means: 
• in relation to emissions from combustion processes, the concentration in dry air at a temperature of 
273K, at a pressure of 101.3 kPa and with an oxygen content of 3% dry for liquid and gaseous fuels, 6% 
dry for solid fuels; and/or 
• in relation to emissions from non-combustion sources, the concentration at a temperature of 273K and at 
a pressure of 101.3 kPa, with no correction for water vapour content. 
“year” means calendar year ending 31 December. 
  