EPR/VP3235DJ/A001 
Date issued: 27/01/2020 
 7 
Consultation 
Due to additional data relating to the air quality modelling that we received during determination of this permit 
we re-advertised the application including the new information on our website between 26 June 2019 and 24 
July 2019. We also resent the consultation request to the other organisations as referred to below.  
 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on GOV.UK for 
the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Response received on 12/12/19 from 
Public Health England (this response superseded the responses dated 16/11/18 and 18/07/19) 
Brief summary of issues raised 
The Environment Agency’s Air Quality Modelling and Assessment Unit does not consider that there will be 
any exceedences of the air quality standards at local receptors during ma intenance testing of the plant. 
The Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) should address potential impacts in the event of the National 
Grid going down and the operator, working with the Local Authority, will ensure that local recept ors are not 
adversely affected. 
Based solely on the information provided there are no significant concerns regarding risks to health of the 
local population from this proposed activity, providing that the applicant takes all appropriate measures to 
prevent or control pollution, in accordance with the relevant sector technical guidance or industry best 
practice. 
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
See key issues section above for information relating to the air quality modelling assessment. 
No action required. 
 
Response received on 20/11/18 from 
Director of Public Health   
Brief summary of issues raised 
No comments to add to the response submitted by Public Health England.   
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
No action required.   
 
 
We also consulted with Environmental Health – Hart District Council, Food Standards Agency, the Health 
and Safety Executive and received no responses.  
 