 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 10 of 17 
For new MCP, we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 
4 months of the issue date of the permit or the date when each new medium 
combustion plant is first put into operation, whichever is later (permit condition 
3.5.5) unless otherwise agreed under Improvement Condition 2.  
For existing MCP with net rated thermal input between 1MW-5MW monitoring 
applies from 01/01/2030, which is the relevant MCPD compliance date. We have 
set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen at any time, but no later than 
the relevant compliance date (permit condition 3.5.5) unless otherwise agreed 
under Improvement Condition 2. 
We have also specified continuous process monitoring of levels of nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) from emission points KLON-02 EP03, to EP06 and KLON-03 EP01 
to EP11 because these generators are fitted with SCR, hence we consider this 
monitoring necessary to ensure the effective operations of the abatement 
system, to prevent excessive ammonia slip and to dose the right amount of urea 
solution. Because this monitoring is not specified to assess compliance with 
emission limits, we are satisfied that it will not require certification to MCERTS 
standards. 
 
Emissions to water 
There will be emissions of uncontaminated site surface water via oil interceptors 
(from KLON-02 and KLON-03 only) at emission point SW1.  
Also refer to Fuel storage and delivery section of this document. 
Decision considerations 
Confidential information 
A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has not been made. 
Identifying confidential information 
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that we 
consider to be confidential.   
Consultation 
The consultation requirements were identified in accordance with the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations (2016) and our 
public participation statement. 
We consulted the following organisations: 
The Director of Public Health 