 
Variation and consolidation  
application number  
EPR/WE4588AB/V002  2 
KAO Data Harlow Campus  
Permit number EPR/WE4588AB 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice 
Under the Environmental Permitting (England & Wales) Regulations 201 6 (schedule 5, part 1, paragraph 19) 
a variation may comprise a consolidated permit reflecting the variations and a notice specifying the variations 
included in that consolidated permit. 
Schedule 1 of the notice specifies the conditions that have been varied and schedule 2 comprises a 
consolidated permit which reflects the variations being made. All the conditions of the permit have been 
varied and are subject to the right of appeal. 
This variation is to increase the number of standby generators from 8 to 25, and to change the activity from a 
standalone Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) permit to a Schedule 1 listed activity under the Environmental 
Permitting Regulations: Section 1.1 Part A(1)(a): Burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal 
input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). The thermal capacities of the already permitted plant will also change 
due to revised calculations by the operator. The following changes have been made to the individual data 
centres that make up the campus: 
KLON-01: The thermal capacity of already permitted generators Gen 1, Gen 7 and Gen 4 have changed 
from 4.84MWth to 4.48MWth each and Gen 2 and Gen 5 have changed from 5.17MWth to 4.61MWth each. 
Two additional generators (Gen 3 and Gen 6) each with a thermal capacity of 4.61MWth have been added. 
None of the generators are fitted with SCR abatement.  
KLON-02: The thermal capacity of already permitted generators Gen 1, Gen 2 and Gen 7 have changed 
from 5.17MWth to 4.61MWth each.  Four additional generators (Gen 3, Gen 4, Gen 5 and Gen 6) each with 
a thermal capacity of 4.61MWth have been added. The already permitted generators are not fitted with SCR 
abatement, but the additional four are.  
KLON-03: Eleven new generators (Gen 1 to Gen 11) each with a thermal capacity of 8.01MWth have been 
added. All eleven generators are fitted with SCR abatement.  
The SCR NOx abatement system on the generators will be used to limit the NOx emissions to a maximum of 
190 mg/Nm3 per generator at 15% oxygen. 
The total thermal capacity for the campus is 152.26MWth. All plant are classified as new MCP, except 
KLON-01 Gen 1, Gen 7 and Gen 4 which are classified as existing MCP. Due to the introduction of SCR 
abatement for some of the generators, urea is used as a raw material which is located in individual tanks 
within the applicable generator containers. Each Urea tank is fabricated from UV stabilised HDPE complete 
with 110% bund and has a stainless-steel drip free fill point. A thermostatically controlled heater provides 
frost protection. The tanks have overfill alarms and gauges  
The remainder of the permit remains unchanged and is as follows: 
The purpose of the back-up generators is to supply electricity to the site in the event of failure of national grid 
supplies. The generators are classed as “excluded generators” under the Environmental Permitting 
Regulations because they operate less than 50 hours per year for the purposes of maintenance and testing 
and are used for this purpose for approximately 2 hours per month for each generator. The generators do 
not have a contract to supply electricity to the national grid. 
The generators are in buildings which form part of an operational data centre campus located in a business 
park in Harlow. The emissions from each of the generators are via individual exhaust emission stacks . 
The gas oil (or equivalent substitute) fuel is stored in individual double skinned tanks  (integrally bunded to 
110% capacity) below each individual generator that they serve. The generators are fed directly from belly 
tanks, there are no day tanks in use. Balancing lines (double skinned pipes) are present between tanks for 