 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 3 of 17 
The consultant assessed the potential long-term and short-term impacts of 
nitrogen oxides (NOX), particulate matter (PM), volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) at sensitive human and ecological receptors.  
Human health receptors 
Routine readiness testing (human health) 
It should be noted that while the monthly routine readiness testing will be 
conducted while the generators are running at approximately 30% load capacity, 
modelling used emission rates from operating the generators at 100% load 
capacity to be conservative. Similarly for the Black building test, the generators 
were modelled at 50% load capacity (rather than 30% likely running load 
capacity). The results for the routine readiness testing scenario that resulted in 
the greatest modelled concentrations was presented and is discussed below.   
Based on the modelling results and the existing baseline conditions, the results 
show that the predicted pollutant concentrations for the routine readiness testing 
scenario were below the relevant short-term ESs at all receptor locations and are 
not considered to be significant. 
Black Building Test (human health) 
Similarly, the predicted pollutant concentrations for the annual Black Building 
Test were below the relevant short-term ESs at all receptor locations. As such, 
impacts are not considered to be significant.  
Emergency Power Outage Event (human health) 
Predicted pollutant concentrations for the Emergency Power Outage Event, 
representing a 72-hour grid outage, were below the relevant short-term ESs at all 
human receptor locations, with the exception of the 1-hour mean ES for nitrogen 
dioxide (NO2). However, statistical analysis indicates that exceedances are highly 
unlikely to occur, therefore impacts are not deemed to be significant. 
Permit improvement condition IC1 requires the operator to submit an Air Quality 
Management Plan (AQMP) to manage the risk to local receptors during grid 
outage events.  
There were no predicted exceedances of any long-term ESs.  
Ecological receptors 
European sites 
We identified the following European sites within the 10 km screening distance of 
the facility: 
 