 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 7 of 17 
Provision of an AQMP. Refer to Improvement Programme and AQMP sections of 
this document. 
Provision of a monitoring plan. Refer to Monitoring section of this document. 
Provision of assessment of performance of the SCR systems (for applicable 
generators) 
Provision of an assessment to address the potential for fuel spills to enter the 
surface water drainage system within the KLON-01 area. 
Table S4.2 (Performance parameters) 
Reporting of testing and maintenance run hours is required annually. Operation 
during an emergency scenario requires both notification within 24 hours and 
annual reporting. 
Noise 
The operator completed a noise impact assessment (NIA) which assessed the 
BS 41422 noise impacts due to the operation and testing of existing and 
proposed generators. The assessment identified that under Monthly Routine 
Readiness testing and once annual Black Build testing low or below adverse 
potential impacts are likely to occur.  
Generator full load testing identified potential significant adverse impacts 
however, specific sound levels for the full load testing scenario have been 
calculated on the basis of sound levels being dictated by the load bank, which 
does not have a fixed location. The consultant’s predictions are based on worst-
case locations for this element, and lower impacts are more likely. The emphasis 
in the management of noise from the site is on prevention during ‘normal’ day to 
day data centre operations, and as such preventative maintenance, 
management, monitoring and inspection of all routine potential sources of noise.  
We have reviewed the NIA and conclude that the noise level and frequency of 
the generator testing is unlikely to be high enough to cause noise pollution at 
sensitive receptors.   
The above assumes that: 
• All testing will be carried out during daytime hours (09:00-17:00). 
• No complaints have been raised regarding noise from the testing of the 
existing generators. 
We are not aware of any previous noise complaints relating to the site from the 
operation of the existing generators. 
We have included the testing during daytime hours in table S1.2 of the permit. 