 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 16 of 17 
We have addressed the legislative requirements and environmental standards to 
be set for this operation in the body of the decision document above. The 
guidance is clear at paragraph 1.5 that the growth duty does not legitimise non-
compliance and its purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the 
expense of necessary protections. 
We consider the requirements and standards we have set in this permit are 
reasonable and necessary to avoid a risk of an unacceptable level of pollution. 
This also promotes growth amongst legitimate operators because the standards 
applied to the operator are consistent across businesses in this sector and have 
been set to achieve the required legislative standards. 
Consultation Responses 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, 
our notice on GOV.UK for the public and the way in which we have considered 
these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation 
section: 
Response received from UK HSA. 
Brief summary of issues raised: The potential exceedance of the 1hr NO2 Air 
Quality Standard under the emergency power outage scenario has been 
identified potentially requiring further justification and mitigation measures such 
as boundary monitoring, ensuring routine testing of the backup generators is only 
carried out in favourable weather conditions, and not undertaking annual testing 
of all data centres within the same 24-hour period. A lack of modelling 
assessment for ammonia emissions associated with the generators that have 
SCR emissions abatement.  
Summary of actions taken: When undertaking an audit of the air emissions 
modelling assessment we undertook several sensitivity analyses, including 
adopting a 15% NOx to NO2 conversion which we considered to be reasonably 
representative at receptors within the first few hundred meters (approximately 
500 m) from the source, which is where maximum PCs are predicted. When 
taking this approach, we did not predict any exceedances of the short- or long-
term NO2 Air Quality Standard for any modelled scenario. For the emergency 
scenario, we found that the consultant’s PCs would not exceed the 
Environmental standard.  When undertaking an audit of the air emissions 
modelling assessment, we also considered the lack of modelling of the potential 
emissions of ammonia (NH3) slippage from the SCR systems. We concluded that 
given the small number of annual hours of operation we consider the potential 
contribution of NH3 to impacts to be minimal. The applicant does not propose to 
undertake annual testing of all data centres within the same 24-hour period. 