 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 5 of 17 
The annual NOX, nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition PCs are all insignificant 
when combining the total annual operations. 
Environment Agency audit/assessment 
Based on our check modelling, we agree with the operator’s overall conclusions 
that the impacts from the site are unlikely to be significant. Our audit focused on 
the impacts from NOx emissions. 
Human health receptors 
We do not predict any exceedances of the short- or long-term NO2 environmental 
standard for any modelled scenario. For the emergency scenario, we find that the 
consultant’s PCs would not exceed the ES if the 15% NO X to NO2 conversion is 
used.  
(The consultant states that they have used conversion factors of 70% for long-term 
and 15% for short-term to calculate the percentage of NO 2 from NOX emissions. 
We observe from their short -term modelling results that they have likely applied 
the standard short -term conversion factor of 35% from our guidance. The 
conversion factor of 15% is likely to be reasonably representative at receptors 
within the first few hundred meters (approximately 500 m) from the source, which 
is where maximum PCs are predicted.) 
 
Ecological receptors 
For the routine readiness and black building tests, results from our check modelling 
show daily mean NOX PCs are insignificant when using the higher daily mean NOX 
critical level of 200 µg/m 3. We note that the consultant’s daily mean NO X PCs for 
the routine readiness and black buildings tests would also be insignificant if 
assessed against the higher critical level instead of the lower critical level. 
For the emergency scenario, our daily mean NOX PCs are predicted to exceed the 
higher critical level should a prolonged power outage coincide with worst -case 
meteorology, however, we find that exceedances are unlikely, as this is based on 
a national emergency event. 
Our annual NOX and nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition PCs are all insignificant 
against the site-specific critical levels and critical loads. 
 
Air quality management plan (AQMP) 
When the permit is issued, we have specified that that the operator shall have a 
written AQMP to manage any issues for prolonged emergency running of the 
plant. 
An AQMP will be provided in consultation with the Local Authority. This will 
outline the response measures to be taken in the event of a National Grid failure 
and the operation of the generators. This will include consideration of the 