 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 2 of 17 
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit.   
Key issues of the decision 
Testing regime 
The standby generators will be routinely tested for readiness according to the 
following schedule: 
• Monthly routine readiness test: 1 hour per generator (individually) running at 
approximately 30% of the full load capacity, to occur on weekdays between 9am 
and 5pm. Will occur for 11 months of the year. Once a year this test will be 
replaced by the annual service test. 
• Annual service test: Once per year, 2 hours per generator running at 
approximately 30% of the full load capacity, to occur on weekdays between 9am 
and 5pm. 
• Black Building Test: Once per year, 30 minutes, running all generators within 
one of the three data centres simultaneously at approximately 30% of the full 
load capacity. 
In addition to these routine testing scenarios, a scenario in which all 25 
generators are continuously operating simultaneously for 72-hours was assessed 
to simulate an emergency event where the primary power supply is interrupted. 
With the high level of mains electrical system redundancy, it is anticipated that 
the mains generators are unlikely to operate for extended time periods. 
Air quality assessment 
Dispersion modelling was undertaken using Lakes Environmental AERMOD 
View. Impacts at sensitive receptors were quantified for three separate event 
scenarios: routine readiness testing, black building tests and the emergency 
scenario, with the results compared with the relevant environmental standard 
(ES). 
The Air Quality Assessment has been carried out assuming gas oil (ultra-low 
sulphur) as the fuel supply of choice. The operator is using hydrogenated 
vegetable oil (HVO). The potential benefits to combustion emissions from using 
this fuel compared with gas oil have NOT been included in the Air Quality 
Assessments carried out to date. The Air Quality Assessments carried out to date 
assume the use of gas oil. 
The operating envelope and fuel choice requirements are captured by permit 
tables S1.1, S1.2 and S2.1. Also refer to Choice of Fuel section in this document. 