 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 13 of 17 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with 
the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate 
techniques for the facility. 
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table S1.2 
in the environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as 
insignificant 
Emissions of oxides of nitrogen have been screened out as insignificant, and so 
we agree that the applicant’s proposed techniques are Best Available 
Techniques (BAT) for the installation. 
We consider that the emission limits included in the installation permit reflect the 
BAT for the sector. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by 
the National Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit 
values in line with technical guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will 
aid the delivery of national air quality targets. We do not consider that we need to 
include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Noise management 
We have reviewed the noise and vibration management plan in accordance with 
our guidance on noise assessment and control. 
We consider that the noise and vibration management plan is satisfactory and we 
approve this plan. 
We have approved the noise and vibration management plan as we consider it to 
be appropriate measures based on information available to us at the current time. 
The applicant should not take our approval of this plan to mean that the 
measures in the plan are considered to cover every circumstance throughout the 
life of the permit. 
The applicant should keep the plans under constant review and revise them 
annually or if necessary sooner if there have been complaints arising from 
operations on site or if circumstances change. This is in accordance with our 
guidance ‘Control and monitor emissions for your environmental permit’.  
Refer to ‘Noise’ section above for further information. 