 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 12 of 17 
The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance 
on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the Industrial Emissions 
Directive. 
We noted that the operator decided not to fully assess contaminants associated 
with the previous use of the site, with only some background data having been 
collected. The previous land use is unlikely to represent a significant source of 
historic contamination, so we agree that collection of full baseline reference data 
is not necessary to support this application. However, the applicant was advised 
that in the absence of this establishment of baseline conditions it may be difficult 
for them to prove that they have not caused contamination should it be identified 
at the surrender stage. The applicant acknowledged acceptance of this potential 
risk.  
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the 
screening distances we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations. The 
application is within our screening distances for these designations.  
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature 
conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any site of nature conservation, 
landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats identified. Refer to 
the Air Quality Assessment section of this document. 
We have not consulted Natural England; however, we sent the Stage 1 Habitats 
Regulations Assessment form for information only on 31 March 2026.  
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the 
facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 