 
LIT 11984  3/6/2026                     Page 9 of 17 
The air impact assessment was based on gas oil as the fuel, which represents a 
worst case.  
We have specified the fuel to burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a 
sulphur concentration of 0.001% w/w, this includes the use of HVO.  
Emission limits 
Based on the operational requirements, we have not set any emission limits.  
As the plant is limited to less than 500 hours of emergency operation by permit 
condition 3.5.5 and less than 50 hours for maintenance and testing in permit 
table S1.2, air emission limits are not applicable. 
Monitoring requirements 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed 
in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In 
particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission 
points KLON-01 EP01 to EP07, KLON-02 EP01 to EP07 and KLON-03 EP01 to 
EP11, with a minimum frequency of once every 1,500 hours of operation or every 
five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been included in the 
permit in order to comply with the requirements of Medium Combustion Plant 
Directive (MCPD), which specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of 
carbon monoxide emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the 
plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from 
emission points KLON-01 EP01 to EP07, KLON-02 EP01 to EP07 and KLON-03 
EP01 to EP11, with the same frequency specified for the monitoring of carbon 
monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied our 
regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in 
concurrence with the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk 
associated with the emissions of NOx from the installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the 
installation, and the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and 
carbon monoxide, we consider this monitoring can be carried out in line with web 
guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ 
published 20 January 2026 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set an improvement condition (IC2) requesting the operator to submit a 
monitoring plan for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s 
proposal for the implementation of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified 
in the permit.  