 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 28 of 28 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section: 
Response received from UK HSA. 
Brief summary of issues raised: 
Recommendation that when considering appropriate permit conditions: 
1. The Environment Agency takes into account that the operator has presented data about 
various air pollutants inconsistently. Recommendation that the Environment Agency may 
wish to enquire to the operator as to what the rational is to how data tables about various 
air pollutants are presented, to ensure that model outputs are representative of the actual 
conditions.   
 
2. The Environment Agency requests that the operator provides more detailed information 
about the predicted process contribution (PC) of nitrogen dioxide 1 hour means for all 
relevant operating conditions. i.e., the tables of results only show the predicted  
environmental concentration.   
3. The Environment Agency considers the overall cumulative impact for all permitted 
combustion activities in the local area as there are often other similar activities on the 
same sites, which have the potential to increase levels of air pollution if operated 
simultaneously. 
 
Summary of actions taken: 
With regard to appropriate permit conditions concerning the operator’s Air Quality Assessment 
the following applies: 
• As described in more detail in the Air Quality Section above, we audited the operator’s air 
quality assessment, including undertaking detailed check modelling and completing 
sensitivity analysis.   
 
• We agree with the consultant’s overall conclusions that the site is unlikely to cause an 
exceedance of an ES at human health receptors and is unlikely to make a significant 
contribution to or cause an exceedance of any critical loads and levels at ecologic al 
receptors providing the electricity grid remains reliable.  
 
Updated response received from UK HSA following confirmation that we have taken the above 
actions: 
• UK HSA has no significant concerns regarding the risk to the health of the local 
population from the Installation.  
 
 