 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 21 of 28 
• LHR11 of 65dB (A) at 1m (from each exhaust/ intake air louvre). Noise from the 
generators has been calculated within the generator building and the air intake and 
exhaust louvres specified to achieve 65dB(A)@1m based on this internal reverberant 
level. 
• LHR12 of 65dB (A) at 1m. These generators are in proprietary enclosures rated to 
achieve 65dB(A)@1m in all directions and from the exhaust flue. 
Although we do not fully agree with the consultant’s numerical predictions, we agree with the 
consultant’s overall conclusions that the sound emissions from the gas oil or equivalent fuel 
generators on site are likely to be low impact. 
Based on our assessment, the key point is that the generators rely upon the mitigation targets 
indicated in the Noise Management Plan to achieve low impacts. Therefore, the Noise 
Management Plan has been incorporated into Table S1.2 of the permit. 
 
Permit Conditions 
The Permit condition 2.3.3 limits emergency operation to 500 hours/ annum. 
Table S1.2 incorporates the maintenance and testing regime, which is less than 50 hours/ 
generator. 
Emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not applicable to MCPs operating less than 500 hours per 
year. 
Emergency operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to make 
emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data  centre 
itself. The Environment Agency expects planned testing and generator operations to be 
organised to minimise occasions and durations (subject to client requirements).  
Each individual standby generator that is a new Medium Combustion Plant (MCP) is required to 
have stack monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) and NOx, refer to monitoring section below.  
Table S1.1 of the permit prevents any electricity produced at the Installation from being exported 
to the National Grid. 
Table S1.2 incorporates operational and management procedures reflecting the outcomes of the 
air quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, the duration and frequency of whole 
site tests and planning off-grid maintenance days and most importantly times/ days to avoid 
adding to any high ambient pollutant background levels. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the reliability of the local electricity 
grid distribution allowing us to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to operate for 
prolonged periods in an emergency mode is very low. 
Tables S4.2 and S4.3 require annual reporting of standby engine maintenance run and any 
electrical outages (planned or grid failures regardless of duration) require both immediate 
notification to the Environment Agency and annual reporting. 
Table S2.1 restricts the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent substitute as agreed in 
writing with the Environment Agency. 
 