 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 13 of 28 
• Utilises uninterruptable power supply (UPS). In the event of a power supply interruption, 
or variation in supply which is out of tolerance, the immediate power demand of the site 
will be met via a UPS. The UPS consists of banks of batteries capable of meeting the full 
load capacity of the site for approximately 10 minutes. The generators are automatically 
triggered to start once the power supply has been interrupted, providing power within 20 
seconds of the failure of the National Grid supply, at which point the UPS would revert to 
standby. 
 
• Has developed automated systems which detect fluctuations in the electrical supply to 
the site, where such events could negatively impact the data centres operation then the 
UPS can be automatically utilised, and generators brought online as required.  
 
• Has designed the data centres so that the status of the supply interruption is constantly 
monitored, facilitating single or multiple generators to start depending on the severity of 
the failure in the supply. Once started the generators will remain operational until the 
mains restoration detection equipment determines that the supply from the National Grid 
is stable. The return to the National Grid supply is an automated process, with the 
National Grid and generator supplies being interlocked to ensure that parallel running 
cannot be achieved. The generators will not synchronise with the mains supply at any 
time. 
 
• Has designed the data centres so that each generator will be independent in terms of fuel 
supply, cooling, fire safety, shut down and control, and for resilience reasons there will be 
no common points of failure between any two sets.  
 
• Has developed multiple electrical feed connections. The electricity supply arrangements 
for the site include two diverse routes and associated infrastructure (e.g., transformers) 
providing a 2N level of resilience, where N is the power demand of the Instal lation. 
 
• A perimeter fence is present along the site boundary and all access points are secured 
with gates, which will only open for authorised personnel. 
 
• CCTV is present covering all external areas of the Installation, which shall be monitored 
at all times by site security.  
 
• As part of the security deployment, cameras shall be installed in surrounding areas, 
including corridors and roadways leading to, or around the Installation to capture and 
record images of personnel movement.  
 
• A Security team is present at the site on a permanent basis. Regular site surveillance 
walks are undertaken by the security team. 
Operational hours 
In order to minimise generator operation, we set operational hour limits for data centres at 500 
hours as they are permitted for emergency use only. The limit on the emergency use of 500 hours 
is for the Installation as a whole i.e. as soon as one generator starts operating the hours count 
towards the 500 hours.  
The operational hours on the site will be monitored and reported as follows:  
• Emergency operation limited to 500 hours for the Installation via permit condition 2.3.3.  
• Maintenance and testing regime limited to <50 hours per stack, linked to operating 
techniques table S1.2. 