 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 12 of 28 
• For both scenarios, all PECs are predicted to be within the relevant long-term ES at all 
human health receptors. We note that for the testing scenario the PCs were insignificant 
against both long-and short-term ES at all human health receptor locations. We predict 
that exceedances of the 10-minute and 1-hour AEGL 1 for NO2, and the hourly EALs for 
NH3, NO and NO2 are unlikely for the emergency scenario. 
 
Habitats Assessment 
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the operator’s numerical 
predictions, the outcome of our checks indicates that the consultant’s testing scenario predictions 
are unlikely to make a significant contribution or cause an exceedance of critical loads and levels 
at any ecological receptor. However, we cannot rule out exceedances of both the daily NOx 
critical level of 75 μg/m3 and the alternative daily NOx critical level of 200 μg/m 3 at three Local 
Wildlife Sites for the emergency scenario. The likelihood of emergency operations taking place is 
considered low, provided that grid outages are unlikely. 
We find: 
• For both scenarios, all PECs are predicted to be within the critical levels and loads at all 
ecological receptors. We note that for the testing scenario the PCs were insignificant 
against both long-and short-term critical levels and loads at all ecological receptor 
locations.  
 
• We cannot rule out exceedances of the daily NOx critical level of 75 µg/m3 at 18 LWS 
receptor points for the emergency scenario. The higher daily critical level of 200 µg/m 3 
may be appropriate to use for these designations. The Silverlink Metro and Dudding Hill 
Loop Railsides in Ealing LWS, Old Oak Common Sidings Birch Wood LWS and London’s 
Canals LWS are likely to exceed for daily NOx in the emergency scenario, even when 
considering the use of the higher critical level of 200 µg/m 3.  
 
• We note that the likelihood of emergency operations taking place is a more important 
factor in considering the risks of daily NOx critical level exceedance, therefore, as the grid 
reliability in the local area appears to be good, the likelihood of the emergency scenario 
occurring is expected to be low. 
 
We agree with the consultant’s overall conclusions that the site is unlikely to cause an 
exceedance of an ES at human health receptors and is unlikely to make a significant contribution 
to or cause an exceedance of any critical loads and levels at ecological receptors  providing the 
electricity grid remains reliable.  
Protection Against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation 
The largest risk of gaseous emissions from the site occurring which could impact human health or 
ecological receptors would be if the gas oil or equivalent fuel generators had to operate for any 
significant period of time following a National Grid failure. 
To address this scenario and minimise emissions, the operator: 
• Has designed the data centres so the generators will be capable of providing an N+1 
level of resilience with each of the generators running in standby mode, which is 
applicable for supplying power to support the maximum electrical demand, including 
starting and distorted loads for the duration of power interruption of a reliable utility 
source. 
 