Permit number          
EPR/YP3329SB 14 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC5 Performance of SCR systems 
The operator shall submit a written report to the Environment Agency for 
assessment and written approval. The report must contain: 
  
• Detailed information on the specification of the suitability of the 
NOx sensors and urea solution dosing to the SCR systems.  
• Evidence of the initial calibration of the NOx sensors and 
verification of the levels of unabated and abated NOx emissions 
upstream and downstream of the SCR system according to a 
methodology consistent with web guide ‘Monitoring stack 
emissions: low risk MCPs and specified generators’ Published 20 
March 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5).  
• Confirmation that the SCR systems achieve the NOx abatement 
performance stated in the application documents referred to in 
table S1.2, or a proposal for remedial actions when this is not 
achieved.  
• A plan to periodically calibrate the NOx sensors and verify the 
performance of the SCR systems, including the proposed 
frequencies. 
 
The operator must implement the proposals in the report in line with the 
timescales agreed within the Environment Agency’s written approval.  
Within 3 months 
from the date of 
issue of the 
permit  
EPR/YP3329SB  
or as agreed in 
writing with the 
Environment 
Agency  
 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures 
Reference Pre-operational measures 
1 Commissioning 
At least one month before operation the operator shall submit a commissioning plan to 
the Environment Agency for approval. The plan shall provide timescales for the 
commissioning of the gas oil/ HVO generators and shall demonstrate that the 
commissioning of the gas oil/ HVO generators is covered within the site’s permitted 
regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations and impacts. 
When the commissioning is not covered within the site’s permitted regular testing 
regime, the operator shall submit an environmental risk assessment for approval by 
the Environment Agency, demonstrating that the environmental risks during the 
commissioning are minimised and remain not significant. The commissioning of the 
engines shall not begin prior to receiving written approval to the plan and associated 
environmental risk assessment by the Environment Agency. 
The plan shall be implemented in accordance with the Environment Agency’s written 
approval. 
2 Containment 
At least one month before operation the operator shall undertake a review of all bunds 
and secondary containment at the site and submit a written report to the Environment 
Agency for assessment and written approval.  
The review shall be carried out by a qualified structural engineer and compare all 
bunds and secondary containment against the standards set out in CIRIA guidance: 
Containment systems for the prevention of pollution (C736).   