 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 26 of 28 
As the plant is limited to less than 500 hours of emergency operation by permit condition 2.3.3 
and less than 50 hours for maintenance and testing in permit table S1.2, air emission limits are 
not applicable. 
Monitoring 
We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters listed in the permit, 
using the methods detailed and to the frequencies specified. In particular: 
We have specified monitoring of emissions of carbon monoxide from emission points  LHR11: A1-
A17 and LHR12: A18-A37 (new MCP), with a minimum frequency of once every 1500 hours of 
operation or every five years (whichever comes first). This monitoring has been included in the 
permit in order to comply with the requirements of the Medium Combustion Plant Directive 
(MCPD), which specifies the minimum requirements for monitoring of carbon monoxide 
emissions, regardless of the reduced operating hours of the plant. 
We have also specified monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from emission points 
LHR11: A1-A17 and LHR12: A18-A37 (new MCP), with the same frequency specified for the 
monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions. In setting out this requirement, we have applied our 
regulatory discretion, as we consider that this limited monitoring, to happen in concurrence with 
the carbon monoxide monitoring, is proportionate to the risk associated with the emissions of 
NOx from the Installation.  
Taking into account the limited hours of operation of the engines operating at the Installation, and 
the fact that we are not setting emission limits for NOx and carbon monoxide, we consider this 
monitoring can be carried out in line with web guide ‘Monitoring stack emissions: low risk MCPs 
and specified generators’ Published 20 March 2024 (formerly known as TGN M5). 
We have set an improvement condition (IC2) requesting the operator to submit a monitoring plan 
for approval by the Environment Agency detailing the operator’s proposal for the implementation 
of the flue gas monitoring requirements specified in the permit.  
For new MCP, we have set a requirement for the first monitoring to happen within 4 months of the 
issue date of the permit or the date when each new MCP is first put into operation, whichever is 
later (permit condition 3.5.2) unless otherwise agreed under Improvement Condition 2. 
We have also specified continuous process monitoring of levels of nitrogen oxides (NOx) from 
emission points LHR11: A1-A17 and LHR12: A18-A37 because these generators are fitted with 
SCR, hence we consider this monitoring necessary to ensure the effective operations of the 
abatement system, to prevent excessive ammonia slip and to dose the right amount of urea 
solution. Because this monitoring is not specified to assess compliance with emission limits, we 
are satisfied that it will not require certification to MCERTS standards.   
Reporting 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the standards specified 
in the Operating Techniques including the reporting of emissions to air and SCR abatement 
efficiency. 
We have specified reporting to ensure the operator notifies us of any operation of the stand -by 
generators in emergency mode in response to national grid power outage. 