 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 6 of 28 
Ecological Receptors 
They considered the following protected European sites:  
Special Areas of Conservation (SAC): 
• Richmond Park 
• Wimbledon Common 
 
They considered the following local sites: 
Local Nature Reserves (LNR): 
• Wormwood Scrubs 
 
The consultant’s assessment of ecological impacts also identified 50 Local Wildlife Sites (LWS) 
as receptor points. 
The data centre is situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) (Ealing AQMA) declared 
by the London Borough of Ealing in 2000 for annual mean NO2 and 24-hour PM10. 
The consultant assessed two scenarios: 
Scenario 1: Routine maintenance/ testing - As part of the testing and maintenance regime, the 
generators will be tested individually, up to 2 hours per month. This equates to 24 hours per year 
per generator, or 888 hours in total per year for all plant. It has been assumed by the consultant 
that the single generator stack with the highest process contributions (PCs), ‘Stack LHR11_17’, 
runs continuously at 100% load to provide worst-case predictions. Annual mean results have 
been factored down, to represent a total annual operating time of 888 hours. 
Scenario 2: Electrical grid outage of 72 hours - All generators operate concurrently at 100% load 
across the site for 72 hours (worst case scenario). 
They made the following assumptions regarding the maintenance and operational scenarios to 
ensure a conservative assessment was undertaken, we do not agree with all of their assumptions 
and have audited their Air Quality Assessment accordingly: 
• The consultant used ADMS 6 to predict emissions of NOx from the gas oil generators. 
They used five years of meteorological data observed at London Heathrow Airport 
between 2018 and 2022. The airport is located approximately 10 km west of the data 
centre and is likely to be representative of the modelling domain. We have conducted 
sensitivity analysis to the additional years of 2016 and 2017 at Heathrow and 
meteorological data from the London Weather Centre, which is approximately 15 km 
northeast of the site. This station shows a slightly different wind profile to those observed 
at Heathrow and may be more representative of the dispersion site. 
 
• The consultant applied a surface roughness value of 1.5 m for the dispersion site, 
representative of large urban areas. This a high surface roughness option in ADMS, 
representative of areas such as central London. We have tested sensitivity to a lower 
surface roughness of 0.7 m, which we consider to be more representative of the site as 
this falls between the land use types parkland, open suburbia, cities and woodlands as 
defined by the model inputs. The consultant applied a surface roughness of 0.5 m for the 
meteorological site, representative of parkland, open suburbia. We have tested sensitivity 