 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 23 of 28 
These show the extent of the site of the facility including the discharge points. 
The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report 
The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we consider is  
satisfactory.  
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on site condition reports  and baseline 
reporting under the Industrial Emissions Directive. 
Nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat 
designations 
We have checked the location of the application to assess if it is within the screening distances 
we consider relevant for impacts on nature conservation, landscape, heritage and protected 
species and habitat designations. The application is within our screening distances for these 
designations.  
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect sites of nature conservation, 
landscape, heritage and protected species and habitat designations identified in the nature 
conservation screening report as part of the permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any site of nature conservation, landscape and 
heritage, and/or protected species or habitats identified. 
We have not consulted Natural England. 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance. 
Environmental risk 
We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from the facility. 
The operator’s risk assessment is satisfactory. 
General operating techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these with the relevant 
guidance notes and we consider them to represent appropriate techniques for the facility. 
The operating techniques that the operator must use are specified in table S1.2 in the 
environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for emissions that screen out as insignificant 
Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), ammonia (NH3), sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide 
(CO) and particulate matter (with a diameter less than 10 microns (PM10) and 2.5 microns 
(PM2.5)) have been screened out as insignificant, and so we agree that the operator’s proposed 
techniques are Best Available Techniques (BAT) for the Installation. 