 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 17 of 28 
The operator confirms that there are temporary measures in place to prevent a major spillage of 
fuel overwhelming the tanker unloading bay by-pass interceptor and escaping into the 
environment which include use of a 9,750 litre capacity PVC tanker bund, to be applied as part of 
the tanker delivery procedure. These allow the tanker to drive onto the bund, which is then fixed 
in position around the tanker prior to offloading of gas oil/ HVO. The proposed capacity provides 
containment for loss of a full compartment from a tanker delivery.  
The operator recognises that a suitable long-term solution is required and confirms that a 
permanent engineered solution is under review. This includes options to apply a shutoff valve 
downstream of the interceptor at the point it enters the wider site foul network, and then contain 
within the delivery area either through a sleeping policeman arrangement or through provision of 
mobile berms during delivery. This requires a review of ground levels and containment options.  
We have added Improvement Condition (IC3) for the operator to submit a proposal for approval 
for a long-term containment solution for the tanker unloading bay and Improvement Condition 
(IC4) for the proposal once approved to be implemented. 
Containment Protection - Pipework 
The pipework on site will have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of 
containment: 
• All below ground pipework is double walled HDPE and come complete with leak detection 
and interstitial monitoring linked to the generator SCADA.  
• The operators response to a leak in the pipework is expected to include closing off the 
relevant pipework or halting the fuel transfer process to prevent further loss.  
• All above ground pipework and where the pipework is exposed and has potential to be in 
contact with flames or hazardous products will be single walled and metallic.  
• Pipework between the external bulk storage tanks and generator building fuel pump room 
shall be contained within a pipe box. 
• The minimum cover to the top of the below ground pipework shall be 600mm below 
finished pavement level in order to provide protection from external loads. Protection 
slabs shall be installed to protect underground utilities, including underground storage 
tanks and the petrol/ oil separator, from high loading vehicles on site.  
• All site infrastructure will be maintained regularly. The leak detection system will be 
checked and tested in line with the manufacturer’s specifications. 
Raw Material Storage, Distribution and Containment 
As well as gas oil or HVO, the raw materials associated with the operation of the generator plant 
are: 
• Lubricant Oil 
• Glycol Solution (Coolant) 
• Urea Solution (AdBlue or similar) 
 
Lubricant Oil and Glycol Solution (Coolant) 
Lubricating oils and glycol coolants are both present within the generator sets. These substances 
are maintained at the optimal level for the operation of the generator sets by the operators 
nominated maintenance contractor. There is no routine storage of lubricant or coolant at the 
Installation other than within the generator plant.  
As the lubrication oil and the coolant are located within the generator plant, secondary 
containment is provided by the generator container. The generator container is designed to 