 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 11 of 28 
• Impacts at ecological sites are potentially significant during the emergency scenario for 
daily mean NOx concentrations, however, is it unlikely that the generators would be 
running for more than 24 hours.  
 
• Impacts during testing are lower than in an emergency scenario and are not significant.  
 
These modelled electrical outages are most probably worst case as the operator stated in their 
Operations Report that, ‘the site is supplied with electricity via two diverse routes and associated 
infrastructure (e.g., transformers) providing a 2N level of resilience, where N is the power demand 
of the Installation.’ 
The operator also carried out further research into National Grid outages in England and stated in 
their Operations Report that, ‘the likelihood of long periods of reliance on the generators to 
provide power to the site is considered to be highly unlikely given that the National Grid Electricity 
Transmission System, which serves the site, reportedly achieved an overall reliability of supply of 
99.999981% over the period 2022-23.’ 
Provided power outages continue to be unlikely the risk of an air quality exceedance from 
emergency operation is low. 
 
Environment Agency review of operator assessment of potential impact on air quality 
The consultant has assessed potential impacts at human and ecological receptors for  nitrogen 
oxides (NOx), ammonia (NH3), sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide (CO) and particulate 
matter (with a diameter less than 10 microns (PM10) and 2.5 microns (PM2.5)). 
We have determined that the risk of exceedance of the SO 2, CO and PM10 Environmental 
Standards (ES) is de minimis, therefore, have only considered emissions of NOx and NH 3 in our 
audit. 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and sensitivity analysis 
on the air quality and habitats assessments presented by the consultant which included: 
• Five years of our own meteorological data observed at Heathrow Airport and the London 
Weather Centre. 
• A surface roughness value of 0.7 m for the dispersion site and 0.3 m for the 
meteorological site.  
• Predictions with main buildings included only. 
• An alternative background concentration for NO2. 
• A lower short-term NOX to NO2 conversion rate.  
• Our own emission rates, incorporating 10 minutes of unabated emissions during start -up. 
• Combining the stack emissions for LHR12. 
• Assessment of the PCs against the NO and NH3 EALs. 
 
Human Health Assessment 
As a result of our checks, although we do not fully agree with the operator’s numerical 
predictions, the outcome of our checks indicates that the consultant’s testing and emergency 
operational scenario predictions are unlikely to make a significant contribution or cause an 
exceedance of an environmental standard at human health receptors.  
We find: 