 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 8 of 28 
have uplifted both the testing and emergency emission rates to account for 10 minutes of 
unabated emissions within 1 hour, as a worst-case.  
 
• The generators will emit NH3 due to ammonia ‘slip’ from the SCR. The emission rate has 
been assumed to be the BAT upper emission concentration of 15 mg/Nm 3, which we 
agree is conservative.  
 
• If emissions from multiple generators are released at the same time within the same 
stack, the plumes will act as a single plume with combined source characteristics. This is 
likely to influence plume buoyancy and dispersion. The consultant has combined th e 
LHR11 stacks into four stacks, arranged as “five in one stack and four in three other 
stacks”. We agree that this is appropriate but note that the consultant has not combined 
stacks for LHR12; we have tested sensitivity to grouping the LHR12 stacks into five 
combined stacks for the emergency scenario, to account for the merged plumes. In the 
case of testing, all generators will be tested individually therefore there will be no risk of 
plume merging.  
 
• The consultant has omitted consideration of annual and hourly mean nitrogen monoxide 
(NO) EALs of 310 µg/m3 and 4,400 µg/m3, respectively. They have also not assessed 
against the annual and hourly mean NH3 EALs for human health of 180 µg/m3 and 2,500 
µg/m3, respectively. We have considered the risks of exceeding these ES in our checks. 
 
Their conclusions were: 
Impact on Human Health Receptors 
Scenario 1: Routine maintenance/ testing 
Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) 
• Annual Mean - The maximum PCs at all locations are less than 1% of the long-term AQS; 
the PCs are, therefore, insignificant.  
 
• 1 Hour Mean (100%ile) - The PEC concentrations at the assessed receptor locations all 
have concentrations less than AEGL-1.  
 
Scenario 2: Electrical grid outage of 72 hours 
Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) 
• Annual Mean - The maximum PCs are less than 1% of the long-term AQS; the PCs are, 
therefore, insignificant. 
 
• 1 Hour Mean (100%ile) - The PEC concentrations at the assessed receptors all have 
concentrations less than AEGL-1. 
PM10 
• Daily Mean - The maximum PC is less than 10% of the critical level and therefore 
insignificant, no further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
 