 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 14 of 28 
Containment and Prevention of Pollution to Ground, Surface water and 
Groundwater 
Fuel Storage, Distribution and Containment 
The operator has demonstrated that there are robust systems in place for the containment of fuel.  
Fuel Storage - Day (Belly) Tanks 
Gas oil or equivalent fuel will be stored at the site in day (belly) tanks. The day tanks will be 
located adjacent to each generator set providing the generators with a minimum of 1‐hour fuel 
storage capacity. 
Fuel storage - There are 37-day tanks on site and each stores approximately 1,000 litres of fuel. 
Therefore, there is a total of 37,000 litres of fuel (37 generators @ 1,000 litres = 37,000 litres) 
stored in the day tanks. 
Fuel Storage - Below Ground Bulk Storage Tanks 
Gas oil or equivalent fuel will also be stored at the site in 4 below ground bulk storage tanks 
providing 24‐hours fuel storage capacity for all 37 generator units at the Installation. 
Fuel storage - There are 4 below ground bulk storage tanks and each stores 90,000 litres of fuel. 
Therefore, there is a total of 360,000 litres of fuel (4 bulk storage tanks @ 90,000 litres = 360,000 
litres) stored in the below ground bulk storage tanks. 
The total capacity for fuel storage on this site is 397,000 litres. This is considered by the operator 
to represent sufficient capacity to enable the operation of all generators at the site at full load for a 
maximum period of 24-hours without the need to refuel (providing redundancy of N+1). 
Containment Protection - Day (Belly) Tanks 
The generator sets are present inside a generator building for LHR11 (17 generators) and within 
dedicated acoustic enclosures on a gantry for LHR12 (20 generators). No drainage exists within 
the structures accommodating the generator units. 
Each generator will be provided with a day tank containing sufficient fuel for the units to operate 
for a minimum of one hour at 100% load, with each tank operating independently.  Each day tank 
will be contstructed from mild steel and be located adjacent to the generator it serves, with fuel 
being transferred from the tanks to the generating sets using pumps located within tank.  
The independent day tanks will be fed from the below ground bulk tanks located externally to the 
generator buildings, via the fuel pump located within a dedicated pump room within each 
generator building. Each of the day tanks will permanently be plumbed into the bulk fuel storage 
system. 
The day tanks will have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of containment:  
• Constructed from mild steel to BS 799-5:2010 with a secondary containment (integrally 
bunded) capacity of 110% of the capacity of the primary storage container. 
• Located internally in the generator building/container, limiting exposure to the elements 
and reducing the risk of corrosion. 
• Automatic leak detection with bund alarms to detect any failure in the primary 
containment structure. The bund alarms will be linked to the SCADA system which 
monitors the generators and associated equipment.  
• Level detectors linked to the SCADA system showing actual tank contents.  
• A common overfill and drain line connected to an external dump tank for LHR11 only. 