 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 3 of 28 
Managing Emissions 
Point Source Emissions to Air 
Emissions to air from the Installation will principally comprise combustion gases arising from the 
operation of the generation plant under emergency, testing and maintenance scenarios.  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at the Installation 
are nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates (PM10), sulphur dioxide (SO2) 
and ammonia (NH3) from the SCR abatement. 
The operator has taken measures to minimise emissions from the gas oil or equivalent fuel 
generators under emergency, testing and maintenance scenarios.  
Both the Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach v21 and Emergency backup diesel engines on 
installations: best available techniques (BAT) - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) specifies the BAT 
emissions specification for new gas oil-fired reciprocating engines as emissions optimised to 2g-
TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or an equivalent. These are the international standards that we have 
concluded that we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   
The operator has confirmed that the 37 generators to be used at the data centres are emissions 
optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard at 75% load. The operator has also included a 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) NOx abatement system within the design . The SCR NOx 
abatement system on the generators will be used to limit the NOx emissions to a maximum of 
190 mg/Nm3 per generator at 15% oxygen, which is the Medium Combustion Plant Directive 
(MCPD) 2015 limit for new gas oil engines. 
We do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the Installation as we have 
included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to ultra-low sulphur gas oil, resulting in 
negligible emissions of sulphur. However, the operator has confirmed that the SO2 emission rate 
is based on the fuel flow of the engine assuming a maximum sulphur content in the fuel of 5mg/kg 
(0.0005%) as advised by the supplier; this is consistent with both low sulphur gas oil and HVO.  
The ammonia emission rate (due to slip from the use of SCR) is assumed to be equivalent to the 
BAT upper emission concentration of 15 mg/Nm3 on a conservative basis. 
Aqueous Releases from Site 
The Installation has separate foul and surface water drainage systems.  
The foul system discharges into the foul public sewer on Chandos Road. The surface water 
system discharges into the surface water public sewer on Chandos Road. Both of these public 
sewer systems combine in Victoria Road to become one foul and surface water combined sewer. 
All the public sewer systems are operated by Thames Water. The combined sewer discharges to 
Beckton Wastewater Treatment Works and ultimately the River Thames. 
Point Source Emissions to Foul Sewer 
The operator has confirmed that there will be no process emissions to the public foul sewer 
system associated with the regulated activity undertaken at the Installation. 
Only uncontaminated surface water runoff will be discharged to the public foul sewer from the 
areas surrounding: 
 
• LHR11 generator building via a 10,000 litre full retention interceptor. The operator 
confirms that there is no regular discharge anticipated and the drainage provides a 
capture and containment approach for spills.  
 