 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 25 of 28 
We have included this pre-operational condition to satisfy ourselves that the fuel tank bunding 
and secondary containment is fit for purpose. 
 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include an improvement 
programme. The following improvement conditions (ICs) have been included in the permit:  
IC1 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
We have specified that the operator shall have a written action Air Quality Management Plan 
(AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency running of the plant and limit the duration 
of an outage event to less than 50 hours, as far as possible. This needs to be proportionate to the 
level of risk at the receptors. The operator is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop 
this plan to ensure local factors are fully considered.  
 
IC 2 - Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
We have specified that the operator shall have a written monitoring plan to ensure that they 
comply with the monitoring requirements of the permit.  
 
IC3 - Tanker Unloading Bay - Proposal 
We have specified that the operator submit a proposal for approval for a long-term containment 
solution for the tanker unloading bay. 
 
We have included this improvement condition to ensure that the operator has a permanent tanker 
unloading bay that is fit for purpose which will contain any spillages and/or leaks during fuel 
delivery, preventing contamination to the environment.  
 
IC4 - Tanker Unloading Bay - Installation 
We have specified that the operator submit evidence of the installation of the long-term 
containment solution for the tanker unloading bay.  
 
We have included this improvement condition to ensure that the operator has a permanent tanker 
unloading bay that is fit for purpose which will contain any spillages and/or leaks during fuel 
delivery, preventing contamination to the environment. 
 
IC5 - Performance of SCR systems 
 
The operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency for approval. The report shall 
provide information on the specification and suitability of the NOx sensors and urea solution 
dosing to the SCR systems. It will also contain evidence of the calibration of the NOx sensors and 
verification of the levels of unabated and abated NOx emissions upstream and downstream of the 
SCR system and whether the NOx system is achieving the NOx abatement performance stated in 
the application.  
 
We have included this improvement condition to satisfy ourselves that the NOx abatement 
system is fit for purpose. 
 
 
Emission Limits 
We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit.  