Permit number          
EPR/YP3329SB 2 
LHR11/12 
Permit number EPR/YP3329SB 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site comprises two data centres which consist of an Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) 2016 
Schedule 1 listed activity: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1) (a) for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW). 
The combustion plant comprises 37 x 6.1 MWth gas oil/ HVO fuelled standby generators  (new Medium 
Combustion Plant (MCP)), with an aggregated total combustion capacity on-site of approximately 225.7 
MWth. The gas oil/ HVO generators are solely used to provide standby electricity generation capacity to 
power the data centres in the event of a grid power failure. The data centres are operational 24 hours/day, 7 
days/week and the electricity supply arrangements for the site include two diverse routes and associated 
infrastructure (e.g., transformers) providing a 2N level of resilience, where N is the power demand of the 
Installation. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(NOx) is 2g-TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or an equivalent standard. The 37 generators to be used at the data 
centres are emissions optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard at 75% load. The generators also 
include a Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) NOx abatement system within the design . The SCR NOx 
abatement system on the generators will be used to limit the NOx emissions to a maximum of 190 mg/Nm 3 
per generator at 15% oxygen, which is the Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 2015 limit for new 
gas oil engines. 
The site comprises of two data centres which operate independently. Data centre LHR11 includes  17 
generators and data centre LHR12 includes 20 generators. The generator sets are present inside a 
generator building for LHR11 and within dedicated acoustic enclosures on a gantry for LHR12 . These are 
being permitted as one Installation because both data centres will be located on a single site wholly owned 
and operated by the same legal operator, they will share a common site boundary, drainage network, 
electrical supply infrastructure, fuel supply systems as well as internal road network.  
During the normal operations of the site, the generators are only run for maintenance and testing, according 
to a specified testing schedule incorporated into table S1.2 of the permit. No electricity is exported from the 
Installation. 
The gas oil/ HVO fuel is stored in day (belly) tanks which are located adjacent to the individual generators 
they serve and have been designed in line with current standards and are bunded (110% capacity) to meet 
The Control of Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001 and British Standard BS799 Part 5 2010 
(Oil Burning Equipment Carbon Steel Oil Storage Tanks). The day tanks are filled directly from 4 below 
ground bulk tanks located externally to the generator buildings, via the fuel pump located within a dedicated 
pump room within each generator building. 
The 37-day tanks store approximately 1,000 litres of fuel each. The 4 bulk fuel storage tanks store 
approximately 90,000 litres of fuel each. The total capacity for gas oil storage on this site is 397,000 litres.   
The below ground bulk fuel storage tanks are designed in line with current standards, they have a secondary 
containment capacity of at least 110% of the primary container to meet the Control of Pollution (Oil Storage) 
(England) Regulations 2001. Alarms, level and leak detection and overfill protection devices are also 
installed on the tanks. Gas oil/ HVO fuel is pumped from the underground tanks to the day tanks via a 
double-walled HDPE piping system with leak detection and monitoring. 