 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 4 of 28 
• LHR11/12 fuel delivery point via a 45 litre bypass interceptor.   
 
The foul sewer point source discharge point into this connection is referenced as S1 on the Plan 
in Schedule 7 of the permit.  
 
Point Source Emissions to Surface Water Sewer 
The operator has confirmed that there will be no contaminated emissions to the public surface 
water sewer system associated with the regulated activity undertaken at the Installation. 
 
Only uncontaminated surface water runoff will be discharged to the public surface water sewer 
from the areas surrounding: 
• LHR12 generator gantry area via 10,000 litre full retention interceptor & attenuation tank 
(soakaway).  
The surface water drainage system is routed across the site to a flow attenuation system 
(soakaways) before being pumped into the public surface water sewer. The surface water point 
source discharge point into this connection is referenced as SW1 on the Plan in Schedule 7 of the 
permit.  
The surface water discharge (SW1) from the facility operates on a pumped mechanism, allowing 
the site to be isolated in the event of a spill through isolation of the pump. There is also an 
automatic drain closure valve installed to prevent spillages from leaving site through the drainage 
system. The pump system operates automatically based upon levels within the sump. A manual 
override will be incorporated and will form part of the emergency response procedure at the site, 
to be implemented by the operations team.  
There is no pumped system on the foul network (S1) as this carries domestic effluent from the 
wider data centre facility. The full retention interceptor provides protection in relation to the 
generator building and potential loss of containment in this location.  
Both drainage systems will be inspected via CCTV survey and will be undertaken on a frequency 
to be determined as part of the transition to the operations team. 
 
Firewater 
The Installation includes containment for firewater within the generator building for LHR11 and a  
firewater capture system for the LHR12 generator gantry, full retention interceptors capable of  
retaining 10,000 litres and a pumped transfer to the drainage system which can be isolated in the 
event of a fire. This provides three layers of protection in relation to the main fire risk at the 
Installation (emergency generators). 
Interceptors 
There are three alarmed oil/ water interceptors on site, serving the generator locations and the 
fuel delivery point.  
There are two 10,000 litre full retention interceptors serving the LHR11 generator building and 
LHR12 generator gantry area drainage, and a 45 litre capacity bypass interceptor serving the fuel 
offloading area.  
 
A probe is installed with the interceptors, which will alarm when the presence of oil is detected.  
The alarms are linked to the generator system SCADA for the data centre. 
 