 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 5 of 28 
The operator confirms that an investigatory procedure will commence which will include visual 
investigation of the area served by the interceptor, temporary isolation of the surface water 
system whilst the source of the trigger is investigated, and arrangement for removal of oil from the  
interceptor where an event has taken place. 
 
Interceptors will be inspected on a six-monthly basis as recommended by the manufacturer and 
where required arrangements will be made for removal of silt/oil by a licenced waste contractor.  
 
Point Source Emissions to Land 
The operator has confirmed that there will be point source emissions to land from the Installation 
in the form of soakaways.  
The only soakaway serving the permitted area is the southern attenuation tank on LHR12 which 
captures drainage from the generator gantry area. The soakaway point source discharge point is 
referenced as SL1 on the Plan in Schedule 7 of the permit. 
The soakaway is lined with a geotextile and geomembrane and is protected by an interceptor, the 
area also includes a firewater retention chamber. 
The soakaways include access points which allow for CCTV surveying and jetting to clear 
blockages and buildup of sediment. The maintenance procedures (including frequency) will  be 
finalised as part of the commissioning process and transition to the operations team for the  
Installation. 
Air Quality 
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (Air emissions risk assessment for your 
environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) and the relevant parts of the guidance applicable 
to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of emissions from generators (Specified 
generators: dispersion modelling assessment - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) the operator submitted 
detailed air dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the associated 
definitions, are set out in our guidance Air emissions risk assessment for your environmental 
permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 
Operator’s Assessment of Potential Impact on Air Quality 
The operator submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment prepared by Ramboll UK Limited (the 
consultant), which considered the potential impacts of the principal pollutants of concern with 
respect to emissions to air from low sulphur gas oil/ HVO generators. The consultant has 
assessed potential impacts at human and ecological receptors for nitrogen oxides (NO x), 
ammonia (NH3), sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide (CO), particulate matter (with a 
diameter less than 10 microns (PM10) and 2.5 microns (PM2.5)) within the defined screening 
distances.  
Human Receptors 
They considered 75 discrete human receptor locations, including residential properties, hotels 
and workplaces. 