 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 20 of 28 
The consultant considered 4 residential receptors. 
The consultant assessed three scenarios: 
• Normal operations (24 hours) 
• Emergency standby operations 
• Single generator testing 
 
Their conclusions were: 
• In all scenarios calculations of plant noise indicate that plant noise limits, which have 
been set based on the typical background noise levels at the nearest sensitive receptors, 
can be met with the proposed plant selections and scheme of attenuation proposed.  
 
• The levels predicted are expected to result in No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
(NOAEL) and a Negligible to Minor impact on nearby receptors during normal operation 
and a Lowest Observed Adverse Effect Level (LOAEL) during temporary emergency 
conditions, with a Moderate impact. 
 
• Changes in road traffic noise levels are not expected to give rise to any significant effects.  
 
Environment Agency review of operator’s assessment of potential noise impacts 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and sensitivity analysis 
on the Noise Impact Assessment (NIA) presented by the consultant. 
In this assessment we only assessed the permitted activity of the backup generators. T he 
consultant states that the levels predicted are expected to result in No Observed Adverse Effect 
Level (NOAEL) and a Negligible to Minor impact on nearby receptors during normal operation 
and a Lowest Observed Adverse Effect Level (LOAEL) during temporary emergency conditions, 
with a Moderate impact.  
As a result of our checks, we find slightly higher rating levels compared to the consultant. The 
main reason for the differences are:  
• Moving receivers to the most affected areas of nearby residential facades. 
• Removing a barrier modelled outside of the site boundary. 
• Slightly increasing source levels for the LHR11 building air intake.  
• Assessing impacts to slightly lower background sound levels than the consultant, 
marginally increasing predicted impacts. 
 
We find numerically below adverse impacts in accordance with the BS41421 method. We have 
considered the context for the site to generally be favourable primarily due to the short operating 
time of the sources in addition to the site being located in an inner-city industrial area with high 
residual sound levels and a small number of nearby noise sensitive receptors. We therefore 
consider that permitted generator testing operations can be downgraded to a low impact in 
context. 
The predicted impact is contingent on mitigation being provided to the generators to achieve the 
consultant’s sound pressure level limits for: 