 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 24 of 28 
We consider that the emission limits included in the Installation permit reflect the BAT for the 
sector. 
National Air Pollution Control Programme 
We have considered the National Air Pollution Control Programme as required by the National 
Emissions Ceilings Regulations 2018. By setting emission limit values in line with technical 
guidance we are minimising emissions to air. This will aid the delivery of national air quality 
targets. We do not consider that we need to include any additional conditions in this permit. 
Noise and vibration management 
We have reviewed the noise management plan in accordance with our guidance o n noise 
assessment and control. 
We consider that the noise management plan is satisfactory, and we approve this plan. 
We have approved the noise management plan as we consider it to be appropriate measures 
based on information available to us at the current time. The operator should not take our 
approval of this plan to mean that the measures in the plan are considered to cover every 
circumstance throughout the life of the permit. 
The operator should keep the plans under constant review and revise them annually or if 
necessary, sooner if there have been complaints arising from operations on site or if 
circumstances change. This is in accordance with our guidance ‘Control and monitor emissions 
for your environmental permit’. 
The plan has been incorporated into the operating techniques S1.2. 
Raw materials 
We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels.  
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to incl ude pre-operational 
conditions. The following pre-operational conditions have been included in the permit: 
1 - Commissioning 
The operator shall submit a commissioning plan to the Environment Agency for approval. The 
plan shall provide timescales for the commissioning of the gas oil/ HVO generators and shall 
demonstrate that the commissioning of the gas oil/ HVO generators is covered within t he site’s 
permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising durations and impacts.  
 
We have included this pre-operational condition as the risk assessment submitted with the 
application does not cover the commissioning phase.  
 
2 - Containment 
The operator shall undertake a review of all bunds and secondary containment at the site and 
submit a written report to the Environment Agency for assessment and written approval.  
 