 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 7 of 28 
to a lower surface roughness of 0.3 m, representative of agricultural areas (max), which 
we consider to be most similar to Heathrow. 
 
• The consultant has modelled predictions across a 700 m x 700 m grid with a 7 m 
resolution. The consultant did not include terrain in their assessment. We agree that the 
terrain in the vicinity of the site is generally flat and therefore should not noticeably affect 
modelling results, so have not tested sensitivity to this. 
 
• The generator stacks are vertical, with a release height of 50 m. Airflow around buildings 
is often complex and may create zones of strong turbulence (cavity zones) and 
downward mixing on the lee side, an effect known as building downwash. The consultant 
chose to include 24 buildings in the model. We have tested sensitivity to including the 
main buildings only, to see how this impacts upon dispersion. Our audit has shown that 
dispersion is good, due to the height of the stacks and facility buildings; buildi ng 
downwash effects are therefore not expected to be substantial, and we have not tested 
sensitivity to this.  
 
• The proposed facility is in an AQMA. The consultant has derived the background 
concentrations for human health receptors from a review of continuous and diffusion tube 
monitoring sites for the London Borough of Ealing. The consultant has applied an annual 
background value of 25.4 µg/m3, which is the mean average of the nearest two diffusion 
tubes, EA41 (1 Shaftesbury Gardens) and EA43 (165 Wells House Road) for 2022, which 
we do not consider appropriate due to the lingering impact of Covid-19 on traffic figures 
during 2022. We have identified a higher annual mean NO2 concentration of 37 µg/m 3, 
taken from the John Keble Primary School automatic monitoring site in the London 
Borough of Brent, which we have applied to our modelling as a conservative background 
concentration. The consultant has used the Defra background maps to establish baseline 
NOx concentrations and APIS to determine the site-specific nitrogen and acid critical 
loads for the European nature sites. We agree that APIS is a suitable source of critical 
load baseline information for ecological sites.  
 
• The consultant chose a 70% long-term and 35% short-term NOx to NO2 conversion, in 
line with our guidance. We have tested sensitivity to a lower short term conversion rate of 
15%, which is likely to be reasonably representative at receptors within the first few 
hundred meters (approximately 500m) from the source, which is where maximum PCs 
are predicted. 
 
• The consultant has calculated emission rates based on information provided by the 
operator and have submitted the technical data sheets for the generators. The operator 
has confirmed that the generators to be used at the data centres are emissions optimised 
to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard at 75% load. The operator has also included a 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) NOx abatement system within the desi gn to limit the 
NOx emissions to 190 mg/Nm3 at 15% oxygen. 
 
• The consultant has stated in their technical note dated 28 th March 2024 that the SCR will 
not be effective for the first 5 to 15 minutes of operation, as the engine will start from a 
cold state and requires a minimum temperature to function correctly. The consultant did 
not account for this in their AQA, but within the technical note they have factored their 
PCs to account for unabated emissions being released during the first 10 minutes of 
operation within an hourly period. While this approach is appropriate, they have not fully 
considered the impact on hourly NO2 exceedances in the technical note. In our audit we 