 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 2 of 28 
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit.   
Key issues of the decision 
Nature of the site 
The operator applied to permit two data centres – LHR11 and LHR12 at the same location, 
known as Park Royal, within the London Borough of Ealing. Both data centres will be located on a 
single site wholly owned and operated by VDC, and will share a common site boundary, drainage 
network, electrical supply infrastructure, fuel supply systems as well as internal road network.  
Therefore, it is proposed that the Installation should be permitted as a single site under our data 
centre guidance as we would clearly regard a company’s individual campus or obvious 
standalone boundary as a single site. 
LHR11 is classed as Phase 1: 17 generators are planned to be installed in 2024. 
LHR12 is classed as Phase 2: 20 generators are planned to be installed in 2025. 
Therefore, the site will have a total of 37 generators. All have been permitted as part of this one 
application. 
Best Available Techniques (BAT) Assessment – Emergency Power 
Provision on Site 
Technology & Fuel 
The operator carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies and fuel capable of 
providing emergency power at the data centre. 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we accept that gas oil or 
equivalent fuel generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby generators. 
Currently gas oil or equivalent fuel generators are the preferred option for the supply of backup 
power for data centres and are a proven technology for providing reliable resilience of 
functionality which can be started from cold very quickly.  
We have specified the fuel to be burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or equivalent 
substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a sulphur concentration of 
0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing our position on the use of gas oil substitute 
fuels such as hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO), therefore we have required that if any of these 
fuels are proposed, written agreement is sought by the operator from the Environment Agency’s 
regulatory officer. The operator confirmed that it is anticipated that the units will primarily be run 
using HVO with a maximum sulphur content of 5mg/kg. Low sulphur gas oil will be used to run 
the generators if required as an alternative. Email received on 13/06/2024 advising Environment 
Agency of change of fuel. Operator to use both gas oil and HVO fuel in backup generators. This 
change was agreed by us on 14/06/2024. 
 
 
 