 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 9 of 28 
Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) 
• Daily Mean - The maximum PC is below the 10% of the short-term objective and 
therefore insignificant, no further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
• 1 Hour Mean - The maximum PC is below the 10% of the short-term objective and 
therefore insignificant, no further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
• 15-minute Mean - The maximum PC is below the 10% of the short-term objective and 
therefore insignificant, no further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
Carbon Monoxide (CO) 
• 1 Hour Mean - The maximum PC is below the 10% of the short-term objective and 
therefore insignificant, no further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
• 8 Hour Rolling Mean - The maximum PC is below the 10% of the short-term objective and 
therefore insignificant, no further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
Impact on Ecological Receptors 
Scenario 1: Routine maintenance/ testing 
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 
• Annual Mean - The maximum predicted PCs at all the assessed ecological sites is well 
below 1% of the critical level, as such they are insignificant. No further consideration of 
the PEC is required. 
 
• Daily Mean - The predicted PCs are less than 10% of the critical level for Richmond Park 
SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC. The predicted PCs at all modelled local nature sites 
are less than 100%. Short-term concentrations are unlikely to give rise to significant 
impacts during the testing scenario. 
 
Ammonia (NH3) 
• Annual Mean - The maximum predicted PCs are less than 1% of the critical level for 
Richmond Park SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC, as such they are insignificant. No 
further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
Nitrogen Deposition 
• The predicted nitrogen deposition on Broadleaved, Mixed and Yew Woodland habitat and 
Dry Heaths for Richmond Park SAC, Wimbledon Common SAC and Wormwood Scrubs 
LNR does not exceed 1% of the critical load for both Woodland and Dry Heath and is 
therefore insignificant. 
 
Acid Deposition 
• The predicted total acid deposition on Broadleaved, Mixed and Yew Woodland habitat 
and Dry Heaths for Richmond Park SAC, Wimbledon Common SAC and Wormwood 