 
EPR/YP3329SB/A001 Decision Document  2024                  Page 10 of 28 
Scrubs LNR is below 1% of the critical load function at all assessed habitats, and 
therefore no further consideration needs to be given. 
 
Scenario 2: Electrical grid outage of 72 hours 
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 
• Annual Mean - The maximum predicted PCs at all the assessed ecological sites are well 
below 1% of the critical level, as such they are insignificant. 
 
• Daily Mean - The daily mean PC is below 10% for Richmond Park SAC and Wimbledon 
Common SAC and is therefore insignificant for these sites. However, the daily mean is 
over 100% for 14 of the modelled ecological receptors, therefore, potentially significant.  
There are only 3 sites where the maximum predicted daily mean NOx concentration is 
above 200μg/m3. 
 
Ammonia (NH3) 
• Annual Mean - The maximum PCs are less than 1% of the critical level for Richmond 
Park SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC, and less than 100% for modelled local nature 
sites. No further consideration of the PEC is required. 
 
Nitrogen Deposition 
• The predicted nitrogen deposition on Broadleaved, Mixed and Yew Woodland habitat and 
Dry Heaths for Richmond Park SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC does not exceed 1% 
of the critical load and is therefore insignificant.  
 
• Nitrogen deposition was also undertaken for all modelled local nature sites. The 
maximum contribution to nitrogen deposition is less than 100% of the critical loads at all 
of the locally designated sites and is therefore insignificant. 
 
Acid Deposition 
• The predicted total acid deposition on Broadleaved, Mixed and Yew Woodland habitat 
and Dry Heaths for Richmond Park SAC and Wimbledon Common SAC is below 1% of 
the critical load function at all assessed habitats, and therefore no further consideration 
needs to be given. 
 
• Acid deposition was also undertaken for all modelled local nature sites. The maximum 
contribution to acid deposition is less than 100% of the critical loads and is therefore 
insignificant. 
 
The consultant concludes: 
• In an emergency scenario the emergency generators can operate up to 1780 hours per 
year with a 1% probability of exceeding the short term NO2 objective.  
 
• Predicted annual mean NO2 impacts have been factored to 72 hours to represent a 
maximum emergency scenario.  
 
• Predicted annual mean NO2 at all relevant receptor locations are not significant.  