EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  13 
The permit application appeared to indicate that the uncontaminated surface water from site was discharged 
to municipal foul sewer which is contrary to the advice given by Thames Water. Further information on the 
matter, including a drainage plan supplied by Thames Water, demonstrated that there is a municipal surface 
water sewer present on the road outside the Cyxtera site. The landlord for the site confirmed that the surface 
water drainage from the site ultimately discharges into the Thames Water municipal surface water drainage 
system rather than the Thames Water municipal foul water drainage system. 
The discharge to this surface water drainage system is included as an Operating Technique within Table 
S1.2 of the permit. 
 
Improvement Conditions: 
IC1: To ensure that the operator has defined response measures to be taken in the event of National Grid 
power failure, the operator shall, in conjunction with the local authority, produce an Air Quality Management 
Plan outlining actions to be taken in the event of electrical grid failure. 
IC2: To compare nitrogen dioxide concentrations produced during operation with those predicted from the air 
quality modelling, the operator shall propose to the Environment Agency a method for testing ambient air for 
nitrogen dioxide. Should such a method be feasible and produce valid results and conclusions, it will be used 
to confirm the short-term nitrogen dioxide concentrations in proximity to the generators, at site boundary and 
at local sensitive receptors by monitoring or testing of actual ambient levels. 
IC3: In order to determine if improvements are required to the site infrastructure or operation to reduce the 
impact of short-term nitrogen dioxide emissions, the operator shall carry out a feasibility study (including cost 
benefit analysis) of options for minimising this impact through either reducing emissions or increasing 
dispersion. This shall include the testing of emissions from one Cummins C2500 D5A engine and one MTU 
16V4000 G63 engine which are the only types of engine operating on site. This should encompass all the 
permitted facility, including generators and infrastructure to be commissioned as part of site expansion 
programmes and consider upgrades of generators, changes to stack heights and review of generator testing 
and maintenance regimes. 
IC4: To ensure sufficient sealed drainage and containment is in place on site in accordance with CIRIA 
guidance, the operator shall carry out a review of the tertiary containment system on site that serves diesel 
storage tanks proposing, with timescales, any improvements necessary. 
IC5: To ensure that there is a recorded system that is suitable and sufficient to give warning of potential 
contamination of ground and groundwater, the operator shall propose for approval and carry out a 
programme of soil and groundwater investigation and reporting. 
IC6: In order to ensure there is no risk of surface water contaminated with diesel potentially discharging to 
site soakaways and possibly draining to local aquifers, the operator shall review the operation, location and 
protection of site soakaways.