EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  10 
Containment and Prevention of Pollution to Ground and Groundwater: 
Tanks/Bunds/Pipework and Containment: 
Cyxtera currently has the capacity for the storage of up to 258,300 litres of diesel on the site with an 
additional 6,800 litres required for the four proposed standby generators as part of the site expansion plan.  
There are three integrally bunded, horizontal, above ground bulk storage tanks: 
- 1 x 96,000 litres; 
- 1 x 84,000 litres; 
- 1 x 56,000 litres. 
Each standby generator also has its own day tank: 
- 5 x 1,100 litres 
- 4 x 1,700 litres 
- 5 x 2,000 litres 
- 4 x 1,700 litres (for proposed additional generators). 
The bulk storage tanks are designed to provide adequate secondary containment – 110% of the internal 
volume of the tank. They have high and low level alarms and are fitted with leak detection alarms. 
Remote fill points are used for the filling of the bulk tanks on the LO5 data centre site. These are above 
ground double-skinned pipes (pipe in pipe arrangement) fitted with leak detection alarms. The remote fill 
points are also fitted with drip trays to capture any minor spills during delivery. With respect to the LO1 data 
centre, the diesel fill points are located directly on the bulk diesel storage tank within a tank cabinet and the 
fill point in each cabinet is also provided with a drip tray. 
The fuel pipework from the bulk diesel tanks to the standby generator day tanks are also double skinned 
(pipe in pipe arrangement) and have leak detection alarms. 
Each standby generator is located, along with its own diesel day tank, in a steel container. Nine of these day 
tanks are single skinned whilst five are double skinned. The tanks that would serve the proposed four new 
standby generators are proposed to be double-skinned. Leakage from these tanks would be contained within 
the raised floor (200cm raised) of the container unit.  
The containment provided by the containers is sufficient to retain the entire contents of the day tanks within 
those containers: 
- The 1,100 litres day tanks are housed in container s with containment capacity of 6,030 litres; 
- The 1,700 litres and 2,000 litres day tanks are housed in containers with containment capacity of 
5,820 litres. 
All the day tanks have fuel level gauges and low/critical low and high/critical high alarms which automatically 
report to the site Building Management System. 
Should there be a risk of leakage exiting the container unit, each container is fitted with a bund alarm. All 
containers containing diesel tanks alarm both locally and on the Building Management System.  
A comprehensive site inspection and maintenance programme is in place to prevent or detect leaks from 
equipment containing diesel. Bulk diesel storage tanks and associated pipework are subject to annual 
inspections, including tank integrity testing, by a specialist third-party contractor. In addition to tanks and 
pipework, this inspection considers the bunding, fill pipes, pumps/dispensers and spill kits. 
Cyxtera personnel also undertake monthly visual inspections of the bulk diesel tanks and daily inspections of 
the individual standby generators and their associated day tanks. 
All deliveries of diesel to site are supervised by trained Cyxtera personnel from the point at which the 
delivery vehicle arrives at the Cyxtera site. During diesel offloading operations, surface water drainage grids 
in proximity to the offloading operation are temporarily covered with a heavy duty rubber mat or spill 
absorbent socks are placed around them. 