 
Permit number 
EPR/YP3935QM 2 
Ajax Avenue Datacentre  
Permit number EPR/YP3935QM 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the notice. 
The main features of the permit are as follows:  
Cyxtera Technology UK Limited operates a data centre consisting of two units known as LO1 and LO5 
located on Ajax Avenue within the Slough Trading Estate. Electricity for operation of the data centres is 
provided by two connections to the National Grid. Due to the need to ensure availability of uninterrupted 
power supply at all times, the site incorporates 14 diesel-fired standby generators with potential for 
installation of a further 4 generators for future site expansion. The total thermal input of the 18 standby 
generators would be 9 generators of 5.71MWth and 9 generators of 5.14MWth (approximately 98MWth in 
total). The redundancy of the standby generators on site is “N+1” – there is one generator more than would 
be required to provide the total power for the site in event of external power failure. 
The surrounding area is predominately commercial and residential in nature. The nearest sensitive human 
receptors to the site are residential properties 130 m to the south-east, 350 m to the south-west and 500m to 
the east. The National Grid reference for the site is SU 95990 80698. The site is approximately 2.1 hectares 
in size. 
This facility consists of the following scheduled activity under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016: 
- Section 1.1 A(1) (a): Burning any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 megawatts or 
more. 
The diesel for the generators is stored in three bulk storage tanks with individual capacities of 96,000, 84,000 
and 56,000 litres. Each standby generator is located in its own steel container with its own tank containing 
enough diesel for one day at a volume of 1,100 litres, 1,700 litres or 2,000 litres. 
Each generator has an exhaust stack that discharges approximately 8.6 m above ground level. 
The site is covered in hardstanding and surface water/rainfall is collected in a series of underground site 
drains which discharge off-site to municipal foul sewer. Run-off from roofs and non-operational areas are 
directed via an oil interceptor to on-site soakaways and surface water from car parking and operational areas 
are directed via an oil interceptor to municipal foul sewer. 
The facility is approximately 3.8 km south of Burnham Beeches (Special Area of Conservation and Site of 
Special Scientific Interest), 5.2 km north of Windsor Forest and Great Park (Special Area of Conservation) 
and 5.4 km north-west of South West London Waterbodies (Special Protection Area and Ramsar site). 
The status log of a permit sets out the permitting history, including any changes to the permit reference 
number.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 