EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  4 
(2) Emergency Operation: 
Potential annual (long-term) impacts of SO2 and C6H6 were not significant as Predicted Environmental 
Concentrations (PEC) were <70% of the EAL. 
Detailed modelling was required to assess the potential annual impacts of NO2, PM10 and PM2.5. Modelling 
was also required to assess the short-term impact of all the potential pollutants considered. 
The annual impact of PM10 was screened out as insignificant as, at all sensitive receptors, the PC for PM10 
was <1% of the EAL. The annual impact of PM2.5 was screened out as not significant as, at all sensitive 
receptors, its PEC was <70% of the EAL. 
The modelling assessments for short-term impacts were based upon the 2014 meteorological data as that 
resulted in the maximum predicted ground level impact (worst case scenario). 
For short-term SO2, modelling indicated that, for the maximum predicted ground level concentration, the PC 
would be 1% of the EAL and the PEC would screen out at 8% of the EAL (in the case of 24-hour 99.18%ile). 
For short-term benzene, modelling indicated that, for the maximum predicted ground level concentration, the 
PC would be 2% of the EAL and the PEC would screen out at 6% of the EAL. 
For short-term CO (both 1-hour and 8-hour), modelling indicated that, for the maximum predicted ground 
level concentration, the PC would screen out at <1% of the EAL. 
For short-term (24 hour) PM10, modelling indicated that, for the maximum predicted ground level 
concentration, the PEC would be a maximum of 70.6% so would not beach the EAL.  
In the case of NO2, the modelling indicated that the probability of exceedance of the short-term 
environmental standard for NO2 was high (90%) in the event of a requirement for 500 hours operation of the 
standby generators due to an electrical grid outage. However, further statistical analysis on the short-term 
exceedances and further sensitivity checks have indicated that exceedances are unlikely if the emergency 
operation lasts less than 95 hours. 
It is a very unlikely scenario that any emergency power outage situation would last more than 95 hours. The 
site has extensive protection against power outages and, in the nine years of site operation, there has never 
been an occasion when loss of power from the National Grid caused the operation of even a single standby 
generator. 
 
 
 
 
 