EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  5 
Managing emissions:  
To address the predicted elevated levels in short term NO2 limits at sensitive receptors the operator will be 
required to minimise the potential impact of emissions through a staged programme of improvement 
conditions.  
Improvement Condition, IC1, requires the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority that outlines response measures to be taken in the event of National 
Grid failure. 
Improvement Condition, IC2, requires the operator to propose a method of ambient air monitoring to verify 
the nitrogen dioxide emission concentrations from the standby generators that have been predicted by the 
air quality modelling report. It is expected that any difficulty in achieving a feasible and valid method will be 
due to the requirement to differentiate between nitrogen dioxide produced by the operator and nitrogen 
dioxide from other sources in the atmosphere. The loading rates and durations considered for the air quality 
monitoring will be worst case scenarios based around monthly testing, half-yearly maintenance, half-yearly 
load tests and annual full load tests. The output of the verification will be used to revise the Air Quality 
Management Plan if required.  
Improvement Condition, IC3, then requires the operator to review options for reducing predicted short term 
NO
2 emissions for the grid failure emergency scenario. Completion of this Improvement Condition will 
necessitate the review of the testing regime (duration, number of engines, loading), the generators 
(compliance with best practice TA-Luft standards) and the infrastructure of the stack emission points (stack 
height, orientation). The operator is also required to provide a cost benefit analysis related to the 
improvements necessary to reduce the NO2 emissions from the generators (particularly those generators 
causing most concern, those with highest emission rates, those demonstrating reduced dispersion of 
emissions and those closest to sensitive receptors). The operator is also required to carry out monitoring of 
the emissions from one Cummins C2500 D5A engine and one MTU 16V4000 G63 engine and use these to 
validate the impact assessment and air quality modelling submitted with the application. 
 
Protection against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation: 
The operator has put in place multiple measures to minimise the risk of power failure including dual 
connections from the National Grid linking from two different sub-stations. These exist on a ring topology 
which in turn has multiple connections to the 132kV High Voltage Super Grid. One of the key factors in 
selecting the data centre location was the availability of power and reliability of supply. The site has been 
constructed along highly reliable and resilient industry standards. 
The site is accredited to ISO27001, the information security management system standard, to help ensure 
that Cyxtera maintains its assets in a manner to reduce the risk of unplanned downtime, and subsequent 
standby generator operation, due to issues such as security breaches. The site has perimeter fencing at 3m 
and 10m heights, more than 500 CCTV cameras and a 24-hour on-site security presence. 
Cyxtera has achieved M&O (Management and Operations) Certification for its data centres from The Uptime 
Institute. This certification process assesses staff, organisational practices, maintenance, operation, 
management and planning to minimise downtime and any potential need for standby generator operation. 
The site has an in-house bespoke environmental management system (EMS) that largely mirrors the 
requirements of ISO14001 and regular maintenance, testing and inspection regimes are in place to ensure 
reliable operation of the site including its infrastructure necessary for maintaining National Grid power supply. 
The data centre design allows for the movement of computer equipment load from one uninterrupted power 
supply (UPS) to another, should maintenance be required on that UPS, without the need to operate any of 
the standby generators. 
Since the data centre commenced operation almost ten years ago, there have been zero occasions of grid 
power loss that required operation of any standby generators. 
 