EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  15 
Aspect considered Decision 
- Slough Borough Council Planning Authority; 
- Slough Borough Council Environmental Planning Authority. 
The comments and our responses are summarised in the consultation 
section. 
Operator 
Control of the facility We are satisfied that the applicant (now the operator) is the person who will 
have control over the operation of the facility after the grant of the permit. The 
decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on legal operator for 
environmental permits. 
The facility 
The regulated facility We considered the extent and nature of the facility at the site in accordance 
with RGN2 ‘Understanding the meaning of regulated facility’, Appendix 2 of 
RGN 2 ‘Defining the scope of the installation’, Appendix 1 of RGN 2 
‘Interpretation of Schedule 1’, guidance on waste recovery plans and permits. 
The extent of the facility is defined in the site plan and in the permit. The 
activities are defined in table S1.1 of the permit. 
The site 
Extent of the site of the 
facility 
The operator has provided a plan which we consider is satisfactory, showing 
the extent of the site of the. The plan is included in the permit. 
Site condition report The operator has provided a description of the condition of the site, which we 
consider is satisfactory. The decision was taken in accordance with our 
guidance on site condition reports and baseline reporting under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive. 
We have included an Improvement Condition, IC5, requiring the operator to 
propose and implement a programme of soil and groundwater investigation 
and reporting particularly in regard to the risk of leaks or spillages from site 
polluting a primary aquifer. 
Biodiversity, heritage, 
landscape and nature 
conservation 
The application is within the relevant distance criteria of a site of heritage, 
landscape or nature conservation, and/or protected species or habitat: 
- Burnham Beeches (Special Area of Conservation); 
- Windsor Forest & Great Park (Special Area of Conservation); 
- South West London Waterbodies (Special Protection area & Ramsar 
site). 
We have assessed the application and its potential to affect all known sites of 
nature conservation, landscape and heritage and/or protected species or 
habitats identified in the nature conservation screening report as part of the 
permitting process. 
We consider that the application will not affect any sites of nature 
conservation, landscape and heritage, and/or protected species or habitats 
identified. 