EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  2 
Key issues of the decision 
Installation: 
The site is an existing data centre which consists of a Section 1.1 Part A (1) (a) activity under The 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 for the burning of any fuel in an appliance 
with a rated thermal input of 50 or more megawatts (MW). 
The electrical power to the data centre halls is provided by the National Grid. The facility will operate standby 
diesel fired generators which it will use to supply power to the data centre halls in the event of National Grid 
outage. No electricity generated will be exported from the installation. 
The generators will only operate in the event of power outage or during defined periods for testing and 
maintenance duties. 
The combustion plant, when fully developed, will consist of up to 18 generators with an aggregated thermal 
capacity of 91.8MWth. There were 14 generators on site as of January 2019 with aggregated thermal input 
of 71.4MWth.  
 
Air Quality: 
The pollutants of concern for emissions to air are the products from the combustion of diesel in the standby 
generators. The operator submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment which screened these emissions to 
determine whether they could be screened out as insignificant and subsequently carried out detailed air 
dispersion modelling which assessed the short term (ST) and long term (LT) impacts at human and 
ecological receptors of nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), sulphur dioxide (SO2), particulate 
matter (PM10 and PM2.5) and unburnt hydrocarbons (as benzene [C6H6]). 
Modelling of sulphur dioxide used concentrations based on a fuel use rate mass balance with full 
conversions of sulphur to sulphur dioxide and Class A2 diesel (10ppm sulphur). This specification for sulphur 
in diesel is included in Table 2.1 of the permit, “Raw materials and fuels”.  
We have audited the operator’s Risk Assessment and are satisfied that their conclusions could be used for 
permit determination. 
The operator modelled the scenarios of: 
(1) Maintenance operations: 
Monthly test – every month during weekends, each generator is operated one at a time for 30 minutes with 
no load.  
The air dispersion modelling has assumed that these generators operate for 60 minutes at 50% load with 
emission rates assumed to be half of the standard full load emission rate as a worst case assumption. 
Half yearly maintenance – every six months, maintenance is undertaken on each individual generator set by 
operating it for 30 minutes with no load. 
The air dispersion modelling has assumed that these operate for 60 minutes with standard full load emission 
rates as a worst case scenario. 
Half yearly load tests – every six months, each generator is operated one at a time for 4 hours at 80% load. 
The air dispersion modelling has assumed this operation to be at standard full load emission rates as a worst 
case scenario.  
Annual full load tests – once per year, between 12:00pm and 15:00pm on 9th June, all the generators are 
started, synchronised and tested at site load.  
The air dispersion modelling has assumed this operation to be carried out at standard full load emission 
rates as a worst case scenario. 
 