EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  12 
In addition, the surface water discharges to soakaway are predominately those where the risk of 
contamination are lower such as discharges of roof water. 
To further ensure contaminated drainage does have an adverse impact, we have included improvement 
conditions within the permit requiring the operator to: 
- review their tertiary containment on site (including protection of soakaways) (IC4);  
- submit a programme of soil and groundwater investigation and reporting to ensure it can sufficiently 
demonstrate that no contamination of ground and groundwater is occurring (IC5) and 
- review their use, location and protection, of soakaways on site (IC6).   
 
Installation Boundary:  
The installation boundary encompasses the entire Cyxtera Technology UK Limited site including standby 
generators, diesel storage tanks, diesel offloading and distribution pipework, data halls and roadways. 
 
Directly Associated Activities: 
The operator proposed in the permit application that there should be only one Directly Associated Activity 
(DAA) – the bulk storage of diesel in storage tanks. 
We agreed that this was a DAA but we also believed that surface water drainage should also be a DAA.  
The operator proposed that surface water drainage did not meet the three limb tests that must all be satisfied 
for a DAA as stated in Regulatory Guidance Note RGN2, Understanding the Meaning of Regulated Facility: 
- It was not directly associated with the stationary technical unit (combustion activity); 
- It did not have a technical connection with the stationary technical unit; 
- It was not capable of having an effect on emissions. 
Although we believe that the surface water drainage does satisfy the first and third of these criteria, we 
accept that it does not fully satisfy the second criterion and so we have not included surface water drainage 
as a DAA. We have nevertheless regulated the aqueous emission points, S1-S5 in Table S3.2, for discharge 
of surface water from site and required weekly visual assessment of the discharge through S5 for oil and 
grease. 
Aqueous Discharges from Facility: 
The Site discharges uncontaminated surface water to municipal (Thames Water) sewer via discharge points, 
S1 – S5 and to site soakaways, W1 – W4. Should the surface water originate from, or pass through, areas 
where diesel is stored/transported or car parking areas, the discharge is passed through an oil interceptor. 
The site does not possess a trade effluent consent for discharge to foul sewer. 
The Ajax Avenue site is leased to Cyxtera and the existing site drainage system was connected to the 
Thames Water municipal drainage systems prior to leasing of the site by Cyxtera. The operator has not 
modified the connections to the municipal drainage systems since occupying the site. 
To ensure municipal sewage works are not overwhelmed during periods of heavy rainfall, it is best practice 
to not discharge uncontaminated surface water to municipal foul only sewer. The most appropriate discharge 
off-site for uncontaminated surface water is to surface water sewer and, failing that, combined sewer (taking 
both trade effluent and uncontaminated surface water). Discharge of uncontaminated surface water to 
surface water sewer or combined sewer would not require a trade effluent consent.  
The Thames Water website states that “We rarely allow surface water to be connected to a foul water sewer, 
as heavy rainfall can then cause sewer flooding. We only permit this if you can’t discharge your surface 
water by another method.” 