EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  6 
Reliability of Power Delivery in Event of National Grid Outage: 
There is a built-in redundancy to the number of standby generators present on site to ensure they can 
always support the site in the event of any power failure. In the case of Cyxtera Ajax Avenue, the built in 
redundancy is “N + 1” meaning that there is one more standby generator on site than would be required to 
deliver the full power load to site should grid connection fail. 
 
Permit Conditions: 
The permit will include a maximum 500 hours per annum ‘emergency/standby operational limit’ for the 
installation. Emission limit values (ELVs) to air and engine emissions monitoring are therefore not required 
within the permit. Emergency hours’ operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid to 
make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring only within the data centre itself. 
Each individual generator with its own discharge stack, can be maintained, tested and used in a planned way 
for up to 500 hours per calendar year each without ELVs or associated monitoring under the Industrial 
Emissions Directive (IED) and Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD). The Environment Agency 
expects planned testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and durations 
(subject to client requirements). 
The permit has a limit on the activity to exclude voluntary ‘elective power operation’ such as demand side 
response (i.e. on-site use) or grid short term operating reserve (STOR) (i.e. off-site export of electricity) and 
Frequency Control by Demand Management (FCDM) for grid support. This is primarily to differentiate data 
centres from ‘diesel arrays’ that voluntarily operate within the balancing market and importantly provide a 
clear way to demonstrate minimisation of emissions to air as ‘emergency plant’. 
The permit application has assessed and provided evidence of the reliability of the local electricity grid 
distribution allowing the Environment Agency to judge that the realistic likelihood of the plant needing to 
operate for prolonged periods in an emergency mode is very low. 
Reporting of standby engine maintenance run hours is required annually and any electrical outages (planned 
or grid failures regardless of duration) require both immediate notification to the Environment Agency and 
annual reporting. 
 