 
Permit number 
EPR/YP3935QM 14 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC4 The Operator shall carry out a review of the site’s tertiary containment 
system which serves the oil and diesel storage tanks.  
The review shall compare the system’s design, method of construction 
and integrity against the standards outlined in CIRIA guidance C736 – 
Containment Systems for the Prevention of Pollution or an equivalent 
industry standard.   
The review shall include a review of how the tertiary containment 
protects the site soakaways. 
A written report of the review shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for written approval which details: 
 the review’s findings and recommendations; 
 proposals for the implementation of recommended 
improvements; and 
 timescales for implementation of improvements. 
The Operator shall implement the recommended improvements to the 
tertiary containment system within the timescales approved by the 
Environment Agency. 
01/10/19 
IC5 The Operator shall submit proposals to the Environment Agency for 
written approval outlining a programme of soil and groundwater 
investigation and reporting. 
The proposals must cover the areas of the site where there may be a 
defined pathway to the underlying aquifer, follow all appropriate British 
and international standards and include the following: 
 a description of the scope of investigation including 
characterisation of the soil and groundwater under the site; 
 a suite of analyses to be undertaken [for both soil and 
groundwater]; 
 potential future monitoring requirements and timescales. 
The proposals shall be implemented by the operator in line with the 
timescales agreed by the Environment Agency. 
 
01/12/19 
IC6 The Operator shall carry out a review of the use and location of site 
soakaways and the systems and procedures in place to prevent surface 
waters containing diesel or other contaminants draining to these 
soakaways. This review shall identify any improvements required in the 
operation, management and protection of the soakaways to ensure 
sufficient measures are in place to prevent pollution leaving site via 
these soakaways.  
The Operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency for 
approval that outlines the results of the review and any changes 
necessary to the site’s soakaway system. 
Any agreed proposals shall be implemented by the operator in line with 
timescales agreed by the Environment Agency. 
01/12/19 
 
Table S1.4 Pre-operational measures for future development 
Reference Operation Pre-operational measures 
POM1 Generator installation for site 
expansion. 
Prior to installation of new standby generators, the operator 
shall submit a detailed design report to the Environment 
Agency for approval outlining how the specification of the 
generator, height and orientation of discharge flue, location 
of generator and operational programme are designed to 