EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  8 
issue (April 2019), the installation works for the proposed additional four generators required to complete the 
site expansion programme (generators 15-18) had not yet commenced.  
 
The operator has justified its use of a large number of smaller generators rather than the use of fewer but 
larger generators. This allows for flexibility in achieving the required electrical output in the event of an 
emergency scenario. Only those generators necessary to supply the power required in any given National 
Grid failure scenario will be required to operate hence reducing consumption of diesel and reducing the 
potential for emissions to air. In addition, the data centre has been developed in phases and each standby 
generator is dedicated to a specific power room within the data centre. This approach allowed the generator 
selected to be matched to the customer demand or required electrical load for each power room ensuring 
they would be operated at optimal design capacity. 
 
The operator has justified not limiting the number of stacks or not grouping stacks into common windshields 
because the approach adopted has designed individual stacks to individual generators to optimise dispersion 
of gaseous emissions during testing/maintenance periods. If a common stack is used for all standby 
generators and only a few generators tested at any one time, the velocity through that common stack would 
be low and atmospheric dispersion reduced. 
 
Noise: 
The site will operate the generators for testing, maintenance and load tests purposes for set periods each 
year as outlined in the Section on Air Quality. Based on an expected final complement of 18 standby 
generators on site after completion of expansion plans, the total operating period for these generators due to 
testing, maintenance and load testing would be 318 hours. 
Prolonged operation outside of these periods will only occur in an emergency situation where the National 
Grid supply is lost. This is deemed a low risk as the reliability of the National Grid power supply is very good 
and the operator has taken measures to reduce the potential for, and the potential impact of, grid failure. 
Since operation of the site commenced almost ten years ago, there have been no cases of operation of 
standby generators due to National Grid power failure. The potential for prolonged noise is therefore 
considered to be low. 
The site has submitted a noise assessment undertaken in accordance with British Standard 4142:2014, 
“Methods for rating and assessing industrial and commercial sound” based on the results of spot noise 
measurements undertaken on site and a background sound survey carried out at nearby noise-sensitive 
receptors.  
The nearest noise-sensitive receptors to site are: 
 Thirkleby Close – residential properties approximately 130m to the south east of the site; 
 Oakfield Avenue – residential properties approximately 350m to the south west of the site; 
 Lake Avenue – residential properties approximately 500m to the east of the site. 
The standby generators are each housed in individual steel containers which themselves demonstrate 
significant levels of attenuation resulting in low levels of breakout noise. Measurements were undertaken 
around the perimeter of the containers at distance of 1m. Levels ranged between 57-74dB. These 
measurements were considered near field but as a worst case assessment were corrected assuming 
standard point source attenuation resulting in a highest level of 85dB. Given the distances to the nearby 
noise-sensitive receptors, the operator considered that the source be considered a point source and 
therefore the dimensions of the containers were not accounted for. 
It is stated in BS4142:2014 that:  
“The lower the rating level is relative to the measured background sound level, the less likely it is that the 
specific sound source will have an adverse impact or a significant adverse impact. Where the rating level 
does not exceed the background sound level, this is an indication of the specific sound source having a low 
impact, dependant on context.” 