EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  14 
Decision checklist  
 
Aspect considered Decision 
Receipt of application 
Confidential information A claim for commercial or industrial confidentiality has been made. 
This related to: 
• Contact details for site personnel; 
• Floor plans, drawings, photographs of sensitive areas included within 
the Fire Risk Assessment and Emergency Action Plan.  
We have accepted the claim for confidentiality in relation to the contact details 
of site personnel. We have excluded names, e-mail addresses and telephone 
numbers. 
We have accepted the claim for confidentiality with regard to the floor plans, 
drawings and photographs of sensitive locations included within the Fire Risk 
Assessment and Emergency Action Plan. Redacted copies of these 
documents have been submitted and accepted. The operator has also 
removed generic information from the Fire Risk Assessment and included 
that in an expanded section of the Site Risk Assessment relating to 
management of fire risk. 
Our guidance document, “Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach” (01/06/18) 
states that: 
“We are unlikely to need the following information in an application:  
1. Site drawings of detailed Data Centre infrastructure like halls, 
electrical circuits, transformers, security, 
2. Contact details of site staff 
3. Data Centre Site specific operating procedures which don’t relate to 
the permitted combustion process.” 
The decision was taken in accordance with our guidance on confidentiality. 
Identifying confidential 
information  
We have not identified information provided as part of the application that we 
consider to be confidential.  
Consultation 
Consultation The consultation requirements were identified in accordance with the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations and our public participation statement. 
The application was publicised on the GOV.UK website. 
We consulted the following organisations: 
- Food Standards Agency; 
- Health & Safety Executive; 
- Public Health England; 
- Director of Public Health (Slough Borough Council) 
- Director of Public Health (Bracknell Forest Council); 