EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  11 
Cyxtera has a number of formal procedures and a site emergency action plan outlining actions to be taken in 
the event of a leak or spillage of diesel. Cyxtera personnel are trained in the requirements of these 
procedures and have also received emergency spill training from an approved external contractor.  
To avoid the risk of collision damage and potential loss of diesel, the bulk storage tanks are constructed on 
raised concrete plinths and located away from areas of routine traffic activity. For those tanks that could 
experience traffic movements in their vicinity, crash barriers are provided around them.  
Small amounts of other potentially polluting raw materials are used in operation/maintenance of the standby 
generators: 
- Lubricating oil; 
- Transformer oil (not containing polychlorinated biphenyls). 
However neither of these will be permanently stored on site. Instead they will be brought to site for specific 
scheduled or unplanned maintenance activities. 
 
Surface Infrastructure, Drainage and Soakaways: 
The site sits on a concrete base and is covered in good quality hardstanding that reduces the potential for 
any leak of diesel or other materials to reach underlying soils or groundwater. Further protection from 
pollution is provided by the Slough Industrial Estate drainage infrastructure. 
Regular documented inspections of diesel storage tanks, standby generator containers and distribution 
pipework are in place to ensure that there are no leaks of diesel from any of this infrastructure. 
There are five release points for surface water from site to be discharged to municipal foul sewer, S1 – S5. 
Discharge points S1 and S4 serve surface water runoff from non-operational areas of site or solely roof 
water runoff. Discharges offsite through S1 and S4 do not pass through an oil interceptor. Discharge points 
S2 and S3, located close to car parking areas, and S5, have oil interceptors in place. The points discharge of 
surface water runoff from the rear yard of data centre LO1 to municipal foul sewer. We have required the 
operator to carry out weekly visual assessment of discharge through S5 as this is the only release point 
within the operational site area where diesel may be present.  
The operator stated that the geology of the site is drift clay over the clay of the Lambeth Group. However we 
believe that the geology of the site is Langley Silt (unproductive stratum) over Taplow Gravel Formation 
(Principal Aquifer) over Lambeth Group (Secondary A Aquifer). The operator therefore may have not fully 
included and considered the Taplow Gravel Principal Aquifer within the conceptual site model. Any drainage 
through this site is likely to be into this aquifer. It is therefore very important that there are no diesel leaks on 
site that can drain into the gravel aquifer. 
The most vulnerable areas on site for potential drainage into the aquifer would be the site soakaways. These 
were developed in partnership with Thames Water as a means of managing surface water run-off. When the 
building known as data centre, LO1, was constructed, Thames Water allowed only a limited volume of 
surface water runoff to be discharged into their municipal drainage systems. To manage this restriction on 
discharge, the site was developed such that the surface water runoff from the rear yard and car parking 
areas of LO1 was directed to the Thames Water drainage system and the surface water runoff from the roof 
was directed to site soakaways, W3 and W4. 
When the site was expanded to construct building LO5, the Thames Water drainage systems were nearing 
capacity and again Thames Water would permit only limited site surface water to be discharged into their 
drainage systems. Two further soakaways were constructed to manage the LO5 surface water runoff from 
the roof and rear yard with all other surface water runoff (from car parking area and a small non-operational 
area to the north-west of LO5) being discharged to the Thames Water drainage systems. 
Although the soakaways may appear a vulnerable area where diesel spillages could drain off-site possibly to 
an aquifer, the site has robust diesel storage, handling and distribution systems with internal and external 
inspection and maintenances systems to ensure the risk of diesel leaks and spills are low. 