 
Permit number 
EPR/YP3935QM 13 
Table S1.3 Improvement programme requirements 
Reference Requirement Date 
IC1 The Operator shall produce an Air Quality Management Plan in 
conjunction with the Local Authority outlining response measures to be 
taken in the event of National Grid failure. This should include but not be 
limited to the following considerations:  
 The response should be tailored to reflect the predicted potential 
impact indicated by the air dispersion modelling at individual 
receptors;  
 Specific timescales for response measures; 
 How local conditions during a grid failure might influence the 
response required, for example meteorological conditions or 
time of day; 
 Contingency for how the response will be carried out in the 
event scenario i.e. loss of power; and 
 Timescales for continued review of the management plan. 
The Air Quality Management Plan shall be submitted to the Environment 
Agency for approval. 
01/09/19 
IC2 The Operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency for 
written approval that proposes a method for the monitoring of ambient 
air quality in order to verify the predicted short term nitrogen dioxide 
concentrations at the designated sensitive receptors (human and 
ecological) included in permit application, EPR/YP3935QM/A001. The 
report shall also consider the feasibility and validity of any monitoring 
method proposed. 
The approved monitoring proposals shall be implemented by the 
operator in line with timescales agreed by the Environment Agency. 
The output of the verification exercise must be used to revise the Air 
Quality Management Plan if necessary. 
01/10/19 
IC3 The Operator shall submit a review of options for reducing predicted 
short term nitrogen dioxide emissions impacts for the National Grid 
power failure scenario. This shall include but is not limited to:  
 Monitoring of emissions from one Cummins C2500 D5A engine 
and one MTU 16V4000 G63 engine to validate the impact 
assessment and air dispersion modelling submitted with the 
application; 
 A feasibility study including cost benefit analysis for potential 
upgrades or other changes to infrastructure, generators and 
operational regimes on site that could reduce emissions and/or 
increase dispersion; 
 Use of the above information to propose appropriate changes in 
stack height, selection of generators or other potential options 
for decreasing emissions or increasing dispersion to ensure 
emergency operation scenario emission levels do not exceed 
acceptable maximum levels specified in relevant guidance at 
sensitive receptors; and 
 Proposal of an appropriate timescale for improvements.  
The review and timescale for improvement shall be submitted to the 
Environment Agency in writing for approval. 
01/12/19 