EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  7 
BAT Assessment: 
The operator carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies capable of providing emergency 
power at the data centre. 
They considered the following technologies: 
- Diesel-fired generators 
- Natural gas-fired generators (spark ignition) 
- Fuel oil-fired generators (typically kerosene fuelled) 
- Hydrogen fuel cell generators. 
Against the following considerations: 
- Start-up time 
- Reliability 
- Independence of off-system services 
- Minimising environmental impact. 
The assessment of each technology indicated that only diesel-fired generators gave the quick start-up 
response necessary for the data centre in the event of power outage (typically other technologies could take 
up to 30 seconds to provide 100% load). In addition, only diesel-fired generators delivered the raw material 
resilience requirements for the site as diesel could be stored in on-site tanks and was readily available from 
a number of external suppliers. There was insufficient space on site for storage of natural gas and hydrogen, 
both of which also exhibited greatly increased safety and health risks relating to storage and use. 
The conclusion of the assessment was that diesel generators were considered BAT. 
We have accepted that diesel fired generators are presently a commonly used technology for standby 
generators in data centres. Retrofitting abatement techniques onto existing power generation technologies 
would not normally be expected for standby plant to mitigate the emission of standby/emergency operation.  
The operator’s BAT assessment did demonstrate that diesel-fired generators would produce more potentially 
polluting emissions to air (most notably NOx) than other technologies. Therefore Improvement Condition, 
IC3, requires the operator to submit a report detailing the results of a review into options for reducing 
predicted short term NOx concentrations. This will include a feasibility study (including cost benefit analysis) 
for potential upgrades to infrastructure such as generators or stacks or changes to operational regimes such 
as duration and frequency of testing regimes with a view to reducing gaseous emissions of products of 
combustion or increasing the dispersion of these emissions. 
The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise the impacts of emissions to air 
(particularly NOx) is 2g TA-Luft (or equivalent standard) or an equivalent NOx emission concentration of 
2,000mg/m
3. The standby generators operating on the site are a mix of Cummins C2500 D5A engines (4g 
TA-Luft) and MTU 16V4000 G63 engines (2g TA-Luft) and therefore a number of these generators have 
emissions higher than this default standard. This is due to the fact the site has already been operating for 
approximately ten years prior to falling under the requirements of the Environmental Permitting Regulations. 
We accept that it would not be practicable to require the operator at this stage to upgrade all plant to BAT 
standards. However upgrade of plant and installation of new engines that meet default generator 
specification will be considered as part of the expansion programme for the site in line with the permit 
preoperational condition and the permit requires the operator to investigate reduction in short term nitrogen 
dioxide emissions as an integral part of a comprehensive response to Improvement Condition, IC3. 
 
In order to ensure BAT standards are maintained for installation of any further standby generators as part of 
the site expansion plan outlined in the permit application, a pre-operational condition (POM1) for future 
development requires the operator to submit a detailed design report to the Environment Agency for 
approval prior to installation of any additional standby generators at the site. The report must demonstrate 
how the specification of the generator, height and orientation of discharge flue, location of generator and 
operational programme are designed to minimise NOx emissions and optimise atmospheric dispersion with a 
view to reducing any impact of short-term NOx emissions on sensitive local receptors. At the time of permit 