EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  16 
Aspect considered Decision 
We have not consulted Natural England on the application. The decision was 
taken in accordance with our guidance. 
We have completed a Habitats Regulations Assessment and sent it to Natural 
England for information. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk We have reviewed the operator's assessment of the environmental risk from 
the facility. 
Operating techniques 
General operating 
techniques 
We have reviewed the techniques used by the operator and compared these 
with the relevant guidance notes and we consider them to represent 
appropriate techniques for the facility.  
The operating techniques that the applicant must use are specified in table 
S1.2 in the environmental permit. 
Operating techniques for 
emissions that do not 
screen out as insignificant 
 
Emissions of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) cannot be screened out as insignificant. 
We have assessed whether the proposed techniques are BAT. 
We agree with the applicant that the use of diesel generators to supply power 
to site in the event of National Grid outage is BAT when compared with 
alternative power generation techniques such as natural gas-fired generators 
(spark ignition), fuel oil-fired generators and hydrogen fuel cell (refer to key 
issues section) 
We have imposed an improvement condition requiring the operator to assess 
improvements in existing systems (generators and emission locations) and 
for future generators to be installed. 
Permit conditions 
Raw materials We have specified limits and controls on the use of raw materials and fuels. 
Improvement programme Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to 
impose an improvement programme. 
Further information is included in the key issues section of this document.  
Emission limits We have decided that emission limits are not required in the permit. See key 
issues section of this document. 
Monitoring We have decided that monitoring should be carried out for the parameters 
listed in the permit, using the methods detailed and to the frequencies 
specified. 
These monitoring requirements have been imposed in order to ensure no loss 
of diesel off-site in surface water discharges.  
Reporting 
 
We have specified reporting in the permit to ensure the site is operated to the 
standards specified in the operating techniques (including prevention of oil 
and grease in surface water discharged from site) and to ensure the operator 
informs us of any operation of the facility in emergency mode. 