EPR/YP3935QM/A001 
Date issued: 01/07/19  18 
Consultation 
The following summarises the responses to consultation with other organisations, our notice on GOV.UK for 
the public and the way in which we have considered these in the determination process. 
Responses from organisations listed in the consultation section 
Response received from 
Public Health England (PHE) 
Brief summary of issues raised 
The consultee noted the applicant’s site is located in a predominately industrial area approximately 3km 
north east of Slough with closet receptors being a number of properties located approximately 160m south 
east of the site boundary. 
The consultee recommended that any environmental permit issued for the site should contain conditions to 
ensure products of diesel combustion (nitrogen dioxide, particulate matter, carbon monoxide and sulphur 
dioxide) from back-up generator operation do not impact on public health.  
PHE noted that the air dispersion modelling provided by the applicant indicated there could be an 
exceedance of the short-term nitrogen dioxide air quality standard in a worst case scenario. The consultee 
noted that the Environment Agency may wish to assess whether measures to limit nitrogen dioxide 
emissions from the generators have been fully considered. They suggested modelling could be repeated 
once generators were commissioned. 
PHE noted that limited fire prevention and accident management scenarios were provided and 
recommended further consideration be given to the implementation of fire prevention measures to 
minimise impact on public health in the event of a fire on site.  
Summary of actions taken or show how this has been covered 
Improvement Conditions (IC) have been included in the permit: 
- IC1 requiring the operator to produce an Air Quality Management Plan in conjunction with the Local 
Authority to outline response measures following any loss of National Grid power supply; 
- IC2 requiring the operator to propose a method of analysing ambient air to verify the predicted 
short-term nitrogen dioxide concentrations at sensitive receptors (human and ecological) and use 
this to update the Air Quality Management Plan if required; 
- IC3 requiring the operator to review options for reducing the predicted impact of short-term nitrogen 
dioxide emissions due to standby generator operation after National Grid failure. 
The site has demonstrated they implement a detailed third-party fire risk assessment and action any areas 
of non-conformance identified. The site has fire alarms, aspiration, detection and sprinkler systems. The 
site has a 24/7 security team on site, a minimum of three persons on site at any time, over 500 CCTV 
cameras, a site access control system and fencing at heights from 3 m to 10 m on the perimeter of the site. 
The standby generators shutdown automatically in the event of fire. Inspections are carried out on bulk 
storage tanks and containers holding standby generators to identify and remedy any leaks, spills or 
abnormal operation that could increase fire risk. 
  
 
No representations received from:  
 Health & Safety Executive  
 Food Standards Agency  
 Slough Borough Council (Director of Public Health)  
 Bracknell Forest Council (Director of Public Health)  
 Slough Borough Council Planning Authority  
 Slough Borough Council Environmental Planning Authority.  
 