 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 6 of 25 
• A Class I forecourt separator (10,000 litre Kingspan) will treat run-off from 
the fuel filling area. The forecourt separator is connected to the site foul 
sewer system.  
 
The Operator confirms that the interceptor tanks will contain a sensor that will be 
linked to the BMS and trigger an alarm if the presence of fuel is detected.  
The Operator cofirms that all interceptors will be subject to periodic visual 
inspections. 
Point Source Emissions to Groundwater/ Land 
The Operator confirms that there would be no emissions to groundwater or land 
associated with the regulated activity undertaken at the Installation. 
Air Quality 
In line with the Environment Agency’s guidance (Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) and the relevant parts of 
the guidance applicable to the assessment of air dispersion modelling of 
emissions from generators (Specified generators: dispersion modelling 
assessment - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)) the Operator submitted detailed air 
dispersion modelling and impact assessment to assess the predicted impacts on 
human receptors and ecological sites.  
The methodology for risk assessment of point source emissions to air, and the 
associated definitions, are set out in our guidance Air emissions risk assessment 
for your environmental permit - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk). 
Operator’s Assessment of Potential Impact on Air Quality 
The Operator submitted an Air Emissions Risk Assessment prepared by Phlorum 
Limited (the Consultant), which considered the potential impacts of the principal 
pollutants of concern with respect to emissions to air from low sulphur gas oil or 
equivalent fuelled generators. The Consultant has assessed potential impacts at 
human and ecological receptors for nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2), 
particulates (PM10, PM2.5), carbon monoxide (CO), ammonia (NH3) and VOCs 
as Benzene (C6H6) within the defined screening distances.    
We will only focus on the impacts of NOx emissions because the other emissions 
are generally low risk compared to the emissions of NOx. 
 
 