 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 11 of 25 
Fuel Storage - Receiver Tanks 
Gas oil or equivalent fuel will also be stored at the site in 2 above ground receiver 
tanks providing further fuel storage from which the belly tanks will be fed.   
Fuel storage - There are 2 above ground bulk storage tanks and each stores 
2,500 litres of fuel. Therefore, there is a total of 5,000 litres of fuel (2 bulk storage 
tanks @ 2,500 litres = 5,000 litres) stored in the above ground bulk storage 
tanks. 
The total capacity for fuel storage on this site is 629,000 litres. 
 
Containment Protection - Day (Belly) Tanks 
The generator sets are present inside the Energy Centre building. 
Each generator will be provided with a day tank containing sufficient fuel for the 
units to operate for a minimum of 72 hours at 100% load, with each tank 
operating independently. Each tank will be located underneath the generator it 
serves, with fuel being transferred from the tanks to the generating sets via 
pumps and pipelines. Each day tank will be contstructed from carbon steel fully 
welded internally and externally and manufactured to the water environment 
standard for oil storage. 
The independent day tanks will be fed from the receiver tanks located inside the 
Energy Centre building via one of two external fill points. 
The day tanks will have the following protection measures to ensure no loss of 
containment: 
• Constructed from carbon steel fully welded internally and externally and 
manufactured to the water environment standard for oil storage. 
• The tanks conform to BS 799 pat 5 type J 2010 with a max working head 
above tank of 0.5m and are integrally bunded to 110%. 
• Located internally in the generator building limiting exposure to the 
elements and reducing the risk of corrosion and spillages entering the 
environment. 
• Overfill prevention valves - probes in tank which set off an alarm at the fill 
point cabinet if filling process exceeds the max levels. 
• Leak detection - float switch within the tank bund to provide leak detection 
which sets off an alarm at the fill point cabinet. 
• Level detectors linked to fuel control panel in the fuel fill cabinet showing 
actual tank contents.  
• All generator enclosures will be fitted with fire detection systems - 
Generators and tanks are to be fitted with valves that will automatically 
shut in the event of a fire shutting off the fuel supply.  