Permit number               
EPR/ZP3527SSEPR/AB1234CD 2 
Union Park 
Permit number EPR/ZP3527SS 
Introductory note 
This introductory note does not form a part of the permit 
The main features of the permit are as follows.   
The site comprises a data centre which consists of an Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) 2016 
Schedule 1 listed activity: 
Section 1.1 Part A(1) (a) for the burning of any fuel in an appliance with a rated thermal input of 50 or more 
megawatts (MW). 
The combustion plant comprises 12 x 8.01 MWth gas oil or equivalent fuelled standby generators (new 
Medium Combustion Plant (MCP)), with an aggregated total combustion capacity on -site of approximately 
96.12 MWth. The gas oil or equivalent fuelled generators are solely used to provide standby electricity 
generation capacity to power the data centre in the event of a grid power failure. The data centre is 
operational 24 hours/day, 7 days/week and the electricity supply arrangements for the site include two 
diverse routes and associated infrastructure (e.g., transformers) providing a 2N level of resilience, where N is 
the power demand of the Installation.  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at the Installation are oxides 
of nitrogen (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates (PM10, PM2.5), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and ammonia 
(NH3) from the SCR abatement. The default generator specification as a minimum for new plant to minimise 
the impacts of emissions to air (NOx) is 2g-TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or an equivalent standard. The 12 
generators to be used at the data centre are emissions optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard. The 
generators also include a Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) NOx abatement system within the design. The 
SCR NOx abatement system on the generators will be used to limit the NOx emissions to a maximum of 95 
mg/Nm3 per generator at 5% oxygen, which is below the Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 2015 
limit for new gas oil or equivalent fuelled engines. 
The 12 generators will be located inside the Energy Centre building. During the normal operations of the site, 
the generators are only run for maintenance and testing, according to a specified testing schedule 
incorporated into table S1.2 of the permit. No electricity is exported from the Installation.  
Gas oil or equivalent fuel will be stored at the site in day (belly) tanks. The day tanks are located underneath 
each generator set. The day tanks have been designed in line with current standards and are bunded (110% 
capacity) to meet The Control of Pollution (Oil Storage) (England) Regulations 2001. The independent day 
tanks are fed from two receiver tanks located inside the Energy Centre building. 
The 12 day tanks store approximately 52,000 litres of fuel each, the 2 receiver tanks store approximately 
2,500 litres of fuel each. The total capacity for gas oil or equivalent fuel storage on site is 629,000 litres.    
Uncontaminated surface water from the site either drains to the River Crane or to the public foul sewer via 
oil/water interceptors before ultimately discharging into the River Thames. The site is covered in 
hardstanding to reduce the likelihood of potential leaks contaminating the underlying soils.   
The Installation known as Union Park Data Centre and associated Energy Centre (EC3) is located in Hayes,  
an urban location, which is relatively industrial in the immediate vicinity with residential properties to the north 
and south at national grid reference TQ 10436 79275. 
There are 3 protected European sites within 10 km and 12 local sites within 2 km of the Installation.  
The data centre is situated in an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) (Hillingdon AQMA) declared by the 
London Borough of Hillingdon in 2003 for exceedances of the UK Air Quality Standard (AQS) for annual 
mean concentrations of nitrogen dioxide (NO2). The site is also located in close proximity to an Air Quality 