 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 5 of 25 
Point Source Emissions to Surface Water 
The Operator confirmed that there will be no contaminated emissions to the site 
surface water drainage system associated with the regulated activity undertaken 
at the Installation. 
The Operator confirms that the site surface water drainage network system 
collects surface water from building roofs and hard landscaping surfaces 
including site access roads, carparks and footways. Site roads and carparks are 
permeable pavements, which provide treatment through a combination of 
Permafilter geomembrane, coarse graded aggregates and permaceptors – These 
areas are not considered to be part of the permitted area as they are not 
associated with the generator, fuel storage or fuel unloading areas. 
The Operator confirms that surface water run-off from all external areas 
discharge via full retention petrol interceptors to the site surface water drainage 
system except for the fuel filling areas which discharge to the site foul sewer 
system. 
The site surface water system covering EC3 discharges into the already 
permitted EC1 and EC2 sites via 2 manholes referenced as SWMH1 and 
SWMH2 on the Plan in Schedule 7 of the permit.  
The campus surface water drainage then discharges from EC1 and EC2 via 2 
point source emissions into the River Crane referenced as SW1 and SW2 on the 
Plan in Schedule 7 of the permit (SW1 and SW2 are not covered by this permit). 
Firewater 
The Operator confirms that the generator enclosures include a fire suppression 
system. The fire suppression system will rely on mains water to extinguish fires. 
In the unlikely event of a fire, there is potential for fire water from either the site 
suppression system or emergency services to enter the environment and cause 
harm.  
The Operator has sufficient emergency preparedness plans in place to mitigate 
this risk. 
Interceptors 
The Operator confirms the use of full petrol retention interceptors and forecourt 
separators.  
• Two full retention interceptors (60 litre Kingspan) will treat run-off from the 
site including the loading ramp areas. The full retention interceptors will be 
a connected to the site surface water drainage system.  