 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 8 of 25 
• It is also considered unlikely that cumulative air quality impacts would 
arise due to the operation of the neighbouring data centre facility. 
 
Impact on Ecological Receptors 
• PCs are insignificant compared to the annual and daily NOx critical 
levels, and nutrient nitrogen and acid deposition critical loads for all 
ecological sites in all modelled scenarios. 
• It is also considered unlikely that cumulative air quality impacts would 
arise due to the operation of the neighbouring data centre facility. 
 
Environment Agency review of Operator assessment of potential impact on 
air quality 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and 
sensitivity analysis on the air quality and habitats assessments presented by the 
Consultant which included: 
• Using our own observed meteorological data from Heathrow Airport for the 
years 2016 to 2020. 
• Using alternative surface roughness lengths at both the dispersion and 
meteorological sites. 
• Using 50 m resolution Ordnance Survey (OS) terrain data for topography. 
• Including one additional human health receptor to the north-east of the 
dispersion site. 
• Including additional receptors in the South West London Waterbodies SPA 
and South West London Waterbodies Ramsar sites to ensure modelling of 
worst-case exposures. 
• Including one additional LWS (Yeading Brook, Minet Country Park and 
Hitherbroom Park LWS) within the relevant 2 km screening distance of the 
combustion sources. 
Human Health Assessment 
As a result of our checks, we find that the process contributions (PCs) from the 
facility are not predicted to exceed the ES at locations of exposure for human 
health under any operating scenario. 
Habitats Assessment 
As a result of our checks, we find that the process contributions (PCs) from the 
facility are not likely to exceed the critical loads and levels at any of the 
ecological sites under any operating scenario. 
The testing and emergency scenario predictions are unlikely to exceed the daily 
NOx critical level of 200 μg/m3. 