 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 20 of 25 
Pre-operational conditions 
Based on the information in the application, we consider that we need to include 
Pre-operational Conditions. The following pre-operational conditions have been 
included in the permit: 
PO1 - Commissioning 
The Operator shall submit a commissioning plan to the Environment Agency for 
approval. The plan shall provide timescales for the commissioning of the 
generators and shall demonstrate that the commissioning of the generators is 
covered within the site’s permitted regular testing regime, thereby minimising 
durations and impacts. 
 
We have included this pre-operational condition as the risk assessment 
submitted with the application does not cover the commissioning phase.  
 
Improvement programme 
Based on the information on the application, we consider that we need to include 
an improvement programme. The following improvement conditions (ICs) have 
been included in the permit: 
IC1 - Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) 
We have specified that the Operator shall have a written Air Quality Management 
Plan (AQMP) to manage the risks for prolonged emergency running of the plant 
and limit the duration of an outage event to less than 50 hours, as far as possible. 
This needs to be proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The Operator 
is expected to work with the Local Authority to develop this plan to ensure local 
factors are fully considered.  
 
IC2 - Monitoring plan - flue gas monitoring requirements 
We have specified that the Operator shall have a written monitoring plan to 
ensure that they comply with the monitoring requirements of the permit.  
 
IC3 - Performance of SCR systems 
The Operator shall submit a report to the Environment Agency for approval. The 
report shall provide information on the specification and suitability of the NOx 
sensors and urea solution dosing to the SCR systems. It will also contain 
evidence of the calibration of the NOx sensors and verification of the levels of 
unabated and abated NOx emissions upstream and downstream of the SCR 
system and whether the NOx system is achieving the NOx abatement 
performance stated in the application.  
 