 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 9 of 25 
Overall 
We conclude no exceedances at either human health or ecological receptors for 
either the testing or emergency scenarios. 
We consider the risk of significant in-combination impacts with the neighbouring 
data centre to be low, as the testing regimes are infrequent and unlikely to 
overlap during worst-case meteorological conditions. 
 
Protection Against Power Outage and Minimisation of Generator Operation 
The largest risk of gaseous emissions from the site occurring which could impact 
human health or ecological receptors would be if the gas oil or equivalent fuel 
generators had to operate for any significant period of time following a National 
Grid failure. 
To address this scenario and minimise emissions, the Operator: 
• Has designed the data centre so the redundancy arrangement for the 
generators is N+1, where ‘N’ is the number of generators required to carry 
the maximum electrical load. At full capacity, each set would be running at 
a maximum of 85.7%. Thus, in an outage only 11 of the 12 generators are 
required to carry the maximum site load i.e. 1 of 12 generators are not 
required to operate. 
 
• Utilises uninterruptable power supply (UPS). Power is initially provided by 
the site’s Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) (arrangement of batteries) 
until the generators start to take the site’s electrical load. The generators 
start from ‘cold’ to take on the load from the UPS (typically within 30-120 
seconds). The backup generators then provide ongoing power until a 
stable mains electrical supply is restored.  
 
• Has designed the data centre to be a Tier III facility, this includes having 
multiple independent distribution paths serving the IT equipment, all IT 
equipment is dual-powered and fully compatible with the topology of the 
site's architecture and has concurrently maintainable site infrastructure 
with expected availability of 99.982%.  
 
• Has designed the data centre so that each generator will be independent 
in terms of fuel supply, cooling, fire safety, shut down and control.  
 
• Has developed multiple electrical feed connections. The grid electrical 
infrastructure to the site includes 2 substations (Iver 275kV substation and 
North Hyde 66kV substation). The relevant part of the grid substation has 
3 incoming feeds to make 2 outgoing supplies to the on-site substation. 