 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 16 of 25 
The Consultant assessed simultaneous operation of 11 proposed emergency 
generators only. Testing of generators has not been included. This was the 
worst-case scenario. 
Their conclusions were that the noise levels associated with the plant are 
predicted to achieve the noise limits at the nearest noise sensitive properties. 
Environment Agency review of Operator’s assessment of potential noise impacts 
We have carried out our own audit by means of detailed check modelling and 
sensitivity analysis on the Noise Impact Assessment (NIA) presented by the 
Consultant. 
As a result of our checks, we find that during emergency conditions the noise is 
low impact by day and night.  
Following sensitivity check modelling, we find that low impacts are likely from the 
permitted activities at the nearest residential receptors. This is acceptable in 
terms of Environment Agency guidance, and therefore, sound emissions from the 
site are acceptable. 
Permit Conditions 
The Permit condition 2.3.3 limits emergency operation to 500 hours/ annum. 
Table S1.2 incorporates the maintenance and testing regime, which is less than 
50 hours/ generator. 
Emission limit values (ELVs) to air are not applicable to MCPs operating less 
than 500 hours per year. 
Emergency operation includes those unplanned hours required to come off grid 
to make emergency repair of electrical infrastructure associated but occurring 
only within the data centre itself. The Environment Agency expects planned 
testing and generator operations to be organised to minimise occasions and 
durations (subject to client requirements). 
Each individual standby generator that is a new Medium Combustion Plant 
(MCP) is required to have stack monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) and NOx, 
refer to monitoring section below.  
Table S1.1 of the permit prevents any electricity produced at the Installation from 
being exported to the National Grid. 
Table S1.2 incorporates operational and management procedures reflecting the 
outcomes of the air quality modelling by minimising the duration of testing, the 
duration and frequency of whole site tests and planning off-grid maintenance 