 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 4 of 25 
commence during the first 15 to 20 minutes of generator operation (warm-up 
time), but for the purposes of the Air Quality Assessment, it was assumed that 
ammonia slip would occur as soon as the genrators operated. This is considered 
BAT. 
Aqueous Releases from Site 
The Operator confirmed that there will be no process emissions to surface water, 
foul sewer, groundwater, or land associated with the site. 
The Operator confirmed that the site’s drainage system is split into separate foul 
and surface water networks. This network serves the entire campus irrespective 
of the Operator/permit boundaries as it was originally designed for a single 
Operator for all 3 data centres. 
As this site (EC3) lies adjacent to EC1 and EC2 (already permitted), the surface 
water and foul drainage emission points for EC3 will be the existing emission 
points in the EC1 and EC2 permit. These emission points will not be included in 
the permit as there cannot be dual regulation as it is already in the permit for EC1 
and EC2. Therefore, 3 manholes have been identified that are close to the 
boundary with EC1 and EC2 that are considered to be the point at which the 
surface water and foul drainage system is discharged from EC3 into the campus 
drainage system of EC1 and EC2. 
The Operator confirms that there will be an arrangement between both Operators 
regarding action to be taken should pollution be identified at any of the listed 
emissions points to determine the source of the pollution and which Operator is 
at fault and thus responsible. 
Point Source Emissions to Foul Sewer 
The Operator confirmed that there will be no contaminated emissions to the site 
foul sewer system associated with the regulated activity undertaken at the 
Installation. 
Drainage from the fuel filling area, which includes the receiver fuel storage tanks 
discharges to the site foul sewer system via a Class I forecourt separator. 
The site foul sewer system covering EC3 discharges into the already permitted 
EC1 and EC2 site via 1 manhole referenced as FWMH1 on the Plan in Schedule 
7 of the permit.  
The campus foul sewer system then discharges from EC1 and EC2 via a point 
source emission into the public foul sewer system maintained by Thames Water 
referenced as FW1 on the Plan in Schedule 7 of the permit (FW1 is not covered 
by this permit).The final point of discharge from the sewer is the River Thames 
via Beckton Sewage Treatment Works. 