 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 3 of 25 
We have specified the fuel to be burned in the engines to consist of gas oil or 
equivalent substitute to be agreed in writing with the Environment Agency with a 
maximum sulphur content of 0.001% w/w. We are in the process of developing 
our position on the use of gas oil substitute fuels such as HVO, therefore we 
have required that if any of these fuels are proposed, written agreement is sought 
by the Operator from the Environment Agency’s regulatory officer. The Operator 
confirmed that the units can run on both gas oil and HVO. This fuel usage was 
agreed by us on 11/04/2025. 
Managing Emissions 
Point Source Emissions to Air 
Emissions to air from the Installation will principally comprise combustion gases 
arising from the operation of the generation plant under emergency, testing and 
maintenance scenarios.  
The primary pollutants of concern to air quality from the combustion processes at 
the Installation are oxides of nitrogen (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), particulates 
(PM10, PM2.5), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and ammonia (NH3) from the SCR 
abatement. 
The Operator has taken measures to minimise emissions from the gas oil or 
equivalent fuelled generators under emergency, testing and maintenance 
scenarios.  
Both the Data Centre FAQ Headline Approach v21 and Emergency backup 
diesel engines on installations: best available techniques (BAT) - GOV.UK 
(www.gov.uk) specifies the BAT emissions specification for new gas oil fired 
reciprocating engines as emissions optimised to 2g-TA Luft or US EPA Tier 2 or 
an equivalent. These are the international standards that we have concluded that 
we will use to infer what BAT is for sites.   
The Operator has confirmed that the 12 generators to be used at the data centre 
are emissions optimised to meet the US EPA Tier 2 standard. The Operator has 
also included a Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) NOx abatement system 
within the design. The SCR NOx abatement system on the generators will be 
used to limit the NOx emissions to a maximum of 95 mg/Nm3 per generator at 
5% oxygen, which is below the Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) 
2015 limit for new gas oil or equivalent fuelled engines. 
We do not consider SO2 emissions to be a risk from the operation of the 
Installation as we have included a condition in the permit restricting the fuel to 
ultra-low sulphur gas oil or equivalent fuel resulting in negligible emissions of 
sulphur. The ammonia emission rate (due to slip from the use of SCR) is based 
on the emission concentration of 5 mg/Nm3 at 5% O2 as stated in the SCR 
datasheet. The Operator confirmed that the dosing of ammonia would not 