 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 2 of 25 
● summarises the decision making process in the decision considerations 
section to show how the main relevant factors have been taken into 
account 
● highlights key issues in the determination 
● shows how we have considered the consultation responses 
Unless the decision document specifies otherwise we have accepted the 
Operator’s proposals. 
Read the permitting decisions in conjunction with the environmental permit.   
Key issues of the decision 
In reaching our decision to grant the permit we took into consideration the 
following matters: 
Nature of the site 
The Union Park data centre and associated Energy Centre 3 (EC3) is one of 
three data centres to be constructed on the ‘Union Park Data Centre Campus’. 
The other two data centres Energy Centre 1 (EC1) and Energy Centre 2 (EC2) 
are under the control of a separate Operator and thus are covered by a separate 
environmental permit (EPR/DP3442QV).  
This application relates solely to EC3 which lies immediately adjacent to EC1. 
As there is a different Operator to the existing permitted sites EC1 and EC2, the 
fuel store and delivery are specific to EC3 and the management system and 
operation of EC3 is separate from that for EC1 and EC2, the activity is not part of 
a multi-operator Installation. Therefore, EC3 is an Installation in its own right as 
there is no technical connection between the three sites.  
Best Available Techniques (BAT) Assessment – Emergency Power 
Provision on Site 
Technology & Fuel 
The Operator carried out a BAT assessment of the viable technologies and fuel 
capable of providing emergency power at the data centre. 
As outlined in the Environment Agency’s ‘Data Centre FAQ’ document, we 
accept that gas oil or equivalent fuel generators are presently a commonly used 
technology for standby generators. Currently gas oil or equivalent fuel generators 
are the preferred option for the supply of standby power for data centres and are 
a proven technology for providing reliable resilience of functionality which can be 
started from cold very quickly.  