 
EPR/ZP3527SS/A001                            Page 24 of 25 
Response received from UK Health Security Agency (previously Public Health 
England)  
Brief summary of issues raised:  
• Noted that the Operator indicates that generator testing and maintenance 
scheduling will not overlap with neighbouring sites. Recommendation that 
where possible other mitigation measures such as undertaking the testing 
and maintenance in favourable weather conditions that aid dispersion to 
minimise the potential for impacts on public health are considered. 
 
• The Operator plans to produce an air quality management plan once the 
site is operational, which would be implemented in the event of a grid 
failure. Recommendation that the Environment Agency should satisfy 
themselves that the proposed measures within the air quality management 
plan are appropriate to minimise exposures off-site.  
 
• The Operator’s Environmental Risk Assessment outlines a number of 
mitigation measures related to presented accident/ incident scenarios. 
This includes a PPM regime which will be implemented once operational 
to cover visible emissions occurrences, visual checks on leaks/ spills/ 
smoke emissions and generator maintenance but no additional details are 
provided. Recommendation that the Environment Agency should satisfy 
themselves that there are appropriate procedures in place. 
 
Summary of actions taken:  
With regard to the Operator’s generator testing and maintenance schedule, as 
described in more detail in the Air Quality Section above, we audited the 
Operator’s air quality assessment, including undertaking detailed check 
modelling and completing sensitivity analysis. We agree with the Consultant’s 
overall conclusions that the site is unlikely to cause an exceedance of an ES at 
human health receptors and is unlikely to make a significant contribution to or 
cause an exceedance of any critical loads and levels at ecological receptors 
providing they adhere to their testing and maintenance schedule. 
With regard to the air quality management plan, we have specified that the 
Operator shall have a written Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP) to manage 
the risks for prolonged emergency running of the plant and limit the duration of an 
outage event to less than 50 hours, as far as possible. This needs to be 
proportionate to the level of risk at the receptors. The Operator is expected to 
work with the Local Authority to develop this plan to ensure local factors are fully 
considered.  
 
With regard to the Operator’s proposed PPM regime, we have received further 
information from the Operator regarding their PPM and inspection regime and we 
are satisfied that there are appropriate procedures in place. 