Big Tech Data Centres: a threat to UK decarbonisation




           Foxglove is an independent non-                      Global Action Plan is an
            profit organisation that fights to                environmental charity focused
              make tech fair for everyone.                   on issues where the connection
                                                            between the health of people and
                  www.foxglove.org.uk                          our planet is most tangible.
                  info@foxglove.org.uk
                                                              www.globalactionplan.org.uk
                                                             team@globalactionplan.org.uk




                                                        2
Introduction

1. The data centres being planned and built across the country will
   require large amounts of electricity, adding significantly to our
   carbon emissions.
2. Developers’ own figures indicate that just ten of the largest data
   centres in planning or construction will cause annual emissions
   equivalent to 2,745,538 tonnes of CO2.
3. A 2.7m tonne increase in annual emissions from data centres
   would effectively wipe out the carbon savings expected in 2025
   from the switch to electric cars (2.9m tonnes)1
4. However, even this figure is just the tip of the iceberg – there
   are many more data centres planned which have not provided
   emissions figures; in addition, those figures provided by
   developers are likely in many cases to be an underestimate.
5. No reliable, overall figure for expected emissions driven by
   data centre growth is available from government or industry –
   we need the government to properly scrutinise and act on the
   environmental impact of data centres.


The UK is facing a vast expansion of data centres – large warehouses
full of computer equipment. There is no official figure available, but
the BBC has reported that there are 100 in planning or construction.
However, Foxglove and Global Action Plan estimate the real number to
be significantly higher.2
The new generation of data centres – often referred to as ‘hyperscale’
– will be significantly larger than those already in the country, and will
demand vast quantities of electricity to run and cool their computing
equipment. Some of the largest being planned will have a ‘capacity’ –
that is, a maximum power use – of over one gigawatt. For comparison,
the peak electricity demand for all of Britain in August was 30
gigawatts.3
Due to their high levels of electricity use, these data centres will be
responsible for a significant increase in carbon emissions, as they are
seeking to connect to the UK’s electricity grid – which is far from being
fully decarbonised. In doing so, they will create significant additional
demand which is likely to drive up prices, and will make it much more
difficult for the UK to reduce carbon emissions from its electricity sector.
Foxglove, a tech justice non-profit, and Global Action Plan, an
environmental charity, are concerned about the impact of a huge
increase of data centres on UK emissions. We are also concerned about
data centres’ use of large volumes of water, although that is not the
focus of this report.




                                     3
Big Tech Data Centres: a threat to UK decarbonisation




               Knowledge gaps

               It is widely accepted that the new generation of planned data centres
               will lead to a significant increase in electricity demand in the UK. The UK
               Government has set up an AI Energy Council to advise on the “energy
               demands needed to power AI data centres.” It is also establishing ‘AI
               Growth Zones’ which will “streamline” the process for constructing
               data centres, and will be required to have access to “at least 500MW
               of power.”4 The CEO of National Grid estimated in March 2024 that
               “Demand from commercial data centres will increase six-fold, just in the
               next ten years”.5
               NESO have doubled their 2022 estimate of data centres’ projected
               future energy needs and now expect them to use 71TWh by 2050,
               equivalent to the entire commercial sector’s energy demands today.6
               However, we have been unable to find any more detailed estimate of the
               impact that the growing electricity demand from planned data centres
               will have on the UK’s carbon emissions.
               We have therefore sought to provide some indicators based on the
               information which is publicly available. However, as we will explain,
               this information is in many places flawed, incomplete or inconsistent
               – as well as being entirely sourced from the data centre developers
               themselves, which leads to concerns over bias.




               Emissions from data centres
               – developers’ estimates

               We have aimed to build up a picture of data centre developers’ views
               of their planned facilities’ expected emissions by looking at planning
               documents.
               The headline finding is that just ten of the larger planned data centres we
               were able to identify will, according to their developers, result in annual
               carbon emissions of 2,745,538 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This is roughly
               the same as the annual carbon saving in 2025 from the public’s switch
               to electric vehicles, which the Climate Change Committee (CCC) puts at
               2.9 million tonnes.
               However, even this large total figure of 2.7m tonnes from planned
               data centres is just a partial picture, based on conservative and in
               some cases flawed or inconsistent figures. With over 100 data centres
               currently in the planning or construction process, many of which do not
               provide carbon emissions figures or even clarity on the size of the data
               centre, the true total for all data centres will be many times higher.
               The following table sets out all the large-scale data centres currently in



                                                        4
                 the planning process or under construction in England which Foxglove
                 and Global Action Plan have been able to identify. ‘Large scale’ for
                 the purposes of this report is defined as 100MW or above in terms of
                 the ‘capacity’ of the data centre. We have excluded from this list data
                 centres where a figure is not available for the planned scale of the data
                 centre; or where the developer has not provided an estimate of carbon
                 emissions from the power use of the data centre during its operational
                 phase.
                 We have however included developer estimates of emissions caused by
                 electricity use even where they appear to be extremely low compared to
                 other facilities of a comparable size. This highlights the lack of clarity or
                 consistency in how the emissions resulting from planned data centres
                 are being assessed.
                 The overall emissions figure this produces should therefore be seen only
                 as one part of the picture. It will be a substantial underestimate for several
                 reasons: first, it only covers proposed data centres in England, not across
                 the UK; second, there may be others in the planning process which we
                 have been unable to identify, or which have been listed since the research
                 was carried out; third, it only includes data centres where the developer
                 has provided a carbon emissions estimate; and fourth, it includes
                 developer figures which we believe may be an underestimate by one or
                 two orders of magnitude, when compared to other similar facilities.


Data Centre name, developer, application yr   Size (MW)        Status             Developer carbon emissions
                                                                                  estimate (tC02e per year)
Cambois (QTS) (2024)                          1100             Outline            184,160
                                                               approved
                                                               03.2025
Elsham Tech (Greystoke) (2025)                1000             Pending outline 857,254

Humber Tech (Greystoke) (2024)                384              Approved           387,805

DC01 (2024)                                   320              Outline            6,056
                                                               approved
                                                               02.2025
Thurrock (Google) (2025)                      225 (estimated) Pending             568,657

Virtus Saunderton (2022)                      300              Under              101,660
                                                               Construction
International Trading Estate (GTR) (2025) 256                  Permission         219,031
                                                               pending
G-Park Docklands (GLP) (2025 – RM)            210              Under              1,148
                                                               Construction
North Weald (Google) (2025)                   164              Under              419,427
                                                               Consultation
103MW Court Lane (2022)                       103              Approved           340

Total                                         4137                                2,745,538


                                                          5
Big Tech Data Centres: a threat to UK decarbonisation




               It is worth considering the following issues regarding the data in the
               table above:
               Total absence of emissions figures for many proposed
               developments

               Foxglove was able to identify twice as many data centres in the planning
               system which appeared to be 100MW or above, but we did not include
               these here as we were not able to find carbon emissions estimates for
               their operational phase from their developers.

               Absence of an overall national picture
               The information above had to be drawn from local planning authorities,
               which means trawling a very wide number of sources to try to build up a
               national picture. There are therefore likely to be absences in the above.
               In addition, because of the scale involved, we were only able to look at
               England in detail, and so this does not include data for the other nations
               in the UK.
               Vast inconsistences between estimates
               We have not been able to determine why developers for data centres
               of a similar size (in terms of energy use, MW) have arrived at emissions
               estimates which vary by as much as two orders of magnitude. For
               example, DC01 appears to estimate annual carbon emissions of
               6,056 tonnes for a 320 MW facility; whereas Google estimates carbon
               emissions of 568,657 tonnes – nearly 100 times higher – for its Thurrock
               site, which we would estimate to be of a smaller scale.
               Strong indications of underestimates
               Based on one figure we have been able to find for emissions caused
               by an existing data centre, it seems reasonable to assume that even
               the higher estimates in the table above are on the optimistic side. Data
               produced for the UK Government’s Climate Change Agreements (CCA)
               scheme indicate that an existing, unknown data centre, run by Digital
               Realty, reported emissions of 408,041 tonnes CO2 equivalent in 2021.
               As the new generation of data centres are likely to be significantly larger
               than ones already in operation in the UK, it is hard to understand how
               their emissions could be lower to such an extent.




                                                        6
Conclusion

The figures provided in this report are the tip of the iceberg – they do not
include most data centres in planning, and the figures used are in many
cases inconsistent and likely to involve significant underestimates.
However, as they are the developers’ own figures they can be seen as
an absolute minimum level of climate emissions that will result if just
these ten facilities – out of a list in excess of 100 – are constructed.
They therefore demonstrate that
1. data centres are a significant and growing source of carbon
   emissions that need to be taken very seriously;
2. there is a need for a clear, consistent, unbiased picture of
   the impact of planned and existing UK data centres on the
   environment;
3. the Government needs to act urgently on this threat to the UK’s
   decarbonisation efforts.




Endnotes
1.   The Climate Change Committee projects savings of 2.9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in
     2025 from electric cars – see ‘Progress in Reducing Emissions,’ 2025 report, figure 5: https://
     www.theccc.org.uk/publication/progress-in-reducing-emissions-2025-report-to-parliament/
2.   See ‘Data centres to be expanded across UK as concerns mount,’ BBC News, 15/08/2025:
     https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/clyr9nx0jrzo The underlying report for the BBC’s story
     does not appear to be freely available, however we believe it significantly underestimates the
     real total. For example, the article states that just one data centre is planned for Scotland when
     there are two currently in the planning process for Edinburgh alone.
3.   According to NESO, “Demand for electricity was at its highest of 29,694MW on 12 August at
     6:30pm.” See ‘Great Britain’s Monthly Energy Stats,’ accessed 25/09/2025: https://www.neso.
     energy/energy-101/great-britains-monthly-energy-stats
4.   See ‘AI Energy Council to ensure UK’s energy infrastructure ready for AI revolution,’
     08/04/2025: https://www.gov.uk/government/news/ai-energy-council-to-ensure-uks-energy-
     infrastructure-ready-for-ai-revolution
5.   ‘Transforming the supergrid of the 1950s to a network built on an electrified future for
     generations to come,’ John Pettigrew, 26/03/2024, available at: https://www.linkedin.com/
     pulse/transforming-supergrid-1950s-network-built-future-come-john-pettigrew-jpbcf/?tracking
     Id=pfbUu%2B%2BXSmej4gv7AdNTtA%3D%3D
6.   See ‘Future Energy Scenarios: Pathways to Net Zero’, July 2025, p.110 onwards https://www.
     neso.energy/document/364541/download




                                                  7
